SOURCE: gtc_keynote
YEAR: 2019
DOMAIN: gpu_computing
---
I am AI. Accelerating your discoveries to solve the great challenges of our time. I am a visionary, bringing characters to life with more natural root. Generating brilliant new worlds for them takes more. And invent new ways to bring out the creative genius in us all. I am a protector, leading the way into the most dangerous violence. And searching for signs of life. I am a guardian, listening for the sounds of destruction to save forests. And using satellites to bring freedom to those who are enslaved. I am a navigator, finding safer paths for cross-country deliverance. And taking her so traveled to high school. I am a scientist, exploring oceans of data to understand extreme weather patterns. And studying the building blocks of life to save a community hunger. I am a healer, giving hope to those who suffer from the most challenging diseases. And tapping into the brain to rejuvenate paralyzed breasts. I am even the composer of use to cure. I am AI. I am a volunteer, brought to life from the video Deep Learning and Brilliant Fogs everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Video Founder, CEO, Jensen Pois. This is what it is like to be playing in the great stadium. Thanks for coming out this way. We have so packed in the old stadium that we have to get you out here. I have so much to tell you guys today. So many fun things to tell you. I am going to get going right away. The accelerated computing approach that we pioneered is really taken on. If you take a look at what we've achieved last year, the momentum is absolutely clear. 50% more developers on video GPUs. 50% more cooted downloads than a year ago. We now have 140 supercomputers powered by Nvidia. A 50% growth. The number one faster supercomputer in the world. The summit. The number one fastest supercomputer in Europe. The Swiss supercomputing center does paint. And the number one fastest in Japan. 22 of the most energy efficient supercomputer powered by Nvidia. We now have 600 applications that are powered by cooted in Hyper-Poenix Computer. 15 of the top 15 applications most popular users are now powered by Coop. And this year we saw some really important new applications. CrowdSpark. The reconstruction of particles from cryoelectron B microscopy. Fun 3D, CFD simulation, RhoMAX, molecular dynamics, microvolution, a inverse convolution method to enhance imagery, hair bricks, genomics analysis, and work the world's most popular, most frequently used, whether seemingly. The thing that's really great about a software-defined method in an accelerated computing approach like ours is that we never give up on the applications and together with the developers continue to advance. Using exactly the same GPU, the same exacting, same infrastructure, applications continue to improve in performance. If you take a look at the most popular, some of the most popular applications from New York go, this year over year we improved the performance from 25x to almost 40x. We continue to enhance those applications, continue to refine them, continue to squeeze more performance out of them so that you can continue to be more and more productive, or similarly larger and larger solutions. Accelerated computing is not just about the chips. The chips is really important. There's no question about that, and we certainly build up world's largest chips. But Accelerated computing is a collaboration, it's a co-design. It's a continuous optimization between the architecture, the chips, the systems, the algorithms, and the applications. The Nvidia stack looks basically like this, and today I'm going to refer back to this repeatedly. Starting from now, we're going to take all of our libraries, we're going to put them together into one body of work, one suite, if you will, one umbrella named called CUDAX. CUDA acceleration libraries. It's built on top of the architecture that all of you know very well, and for many of you the reason why you're here called CUDA. CUDA runs on top of all of our GPUs. It runs on top of our graphics GPU called RTX. Our deep learning systems called EGX, our hyper-scale systems called HGX, and even our autonomous machine systems, a little embedded systems called AGS. It's architecturally compatible with all of them. On top of it, we built domain-specific acceleration libraries, domain-specific acceleration libraries, one domain after another, whether it's graphics or hyper-fueling computing, artificial intelligence, autonomous driving, DR, drive, IS, for Isaac, robotics, CL for Clara, healthcare, medical imaging, and last one is what? Metropolis. Metropolis for smart cities. All of these domain-specific applications and acceleration libraries are now contained as part of the CUDAX. And on top of it is NGC, the Envidea GPU cloud. Whenever it's possible for us to containerize those libraries, we do so, and we put it into the Envidea GPU cloud, you could download it into any cloud, any data center, any computer that has been certified, and it will just run the entire acceleration step, fully integrated, fully optimized, and enhance all the time. Now, the reason that we do this is for several characteristics that we really love about accelerated computing. And remember, it's not just about chip, it's about the entire stack. And so one way to think about that is this. The first thing you want to do for accelerated computing is you want to make it programmable. I created a whole bunch of acronyms here, just to simplify for you. And more importantly, that's right, make it simple. More importantly, there's going to be a pop quiz at the end. Okay, there's going to be a pop quiz at the end. It's programmable. Well, the reason for that is because most algorithms today want to be software-wide. You want your computers to be software-wide, because so much innovation is going to computer algorithms today. And we want to put architecture, put the computer, put the capabilities of that machine, in the hands of the software developers, making it software-defined, makes that computer forever more powerful, improving all the time. If it's software-defined, if it's programmable, has great tools, then the time to solution, time to finding that algorithm will be short. And of course, you will seek growth in the number of domains, growth in domains. If it's programmable, you could use it for more and more things. The number of algorithms, of course, are diverse and endless. But the fundamental computational methods tend to be very similar. And so by using a software-defined acceleration approach, we could expand the number of domains that the computers could be used for. Acceleration gives you time to answers, time to answers, or size of problems. You can increase the size of the problem. Whether you want to take a very large problem, do it as fast as you can. Or you have a certain amount of time you want to increase the size of the problem you can solve. It also gives you the lowest cost of infrastructure. If you solve a problem quickly, if you have a computer that can achieve the necessary solution as quickly as possible, of course you can buy fewer computers. You've heard me say, the more you buy, the more you say. The reason for that is this. Doing things efficiently and doing things quickly is the most cost-effective way of doing so. The number of domains. It turns out a computer is only successful if there's a whole ecosystem around it. And the number of partners that you have that take it to the market place is large. Because the world that uses computers is huge. Almost every field of science, every industry, every company of the world uses computing is some kind. And we believe that in the future, they will all be high-performance computing customers. They will rely on high-performance computing to achieve their mission. The cost of deployment is low as when it has multiple domains. And the reason is very, very simple. A computer maker would be more enthusiastic to take computers out to the world if you conserve finance and healthcare and manufacturing and transportation and retail and insurance. The larger the number of domains that a computer serves, the lower the cost of deployment it is. It is the reason why today. The X86 is the world's most affordable and the most popular computer because it has so much use. The space of applicability is gigantic. It's domain of uses. Programmability gives us the largest possible domain. It also, as a result, reduces the cost of infrastructure here. Architecture. Architecture is a funny word. In our company, architecture means this. An application that was written yesterday has to run on a computer tomorrow. An application that we enhance today will run on computers everywhere that has come to end. Architecture compatibility has such enormous and powerful implications. It is the reason why architecture is either succeed or don't succeed. Backwards compatibility, large install base, all makes it available to drive the cost of the infrastructure down. Architecture gives us continuous improvement and performance. It expands the domains and drives the cost of infrastructure today. All of these things create positive feedback system and that's what we're experiencing today. The reason why architecture grows faster and faster in adoption with a faster and faster time is because of these characteristics. While these characteristics, it turns out, it's incredibly hard to remember. And so, as in every keynote, I try to introduce you to new word. Today's word is, that's right. And I come up with it at the very beginning of every keynote just in time. So, this is the word of the day. Prata, at the end of our keynote, I will ask you this word again. Prata stands for programmable acceleration of multiple domains with one architecture. Does that make sense? Prata, can you remember this? Okay, say it out loud. One, Prata. Okay, thank you very much. My job is done. Have a nice day. Okay, Prata, accelerated computing. The approach that we've hired here that doesn't need us to go is really taken off. And it's taken off because we're seeing that CPUs are not scaling as fast as they used to. And because the number of workloads that are really, really important to the future of computing of future society has just gone berserk. The amount of computation that is necessary for the future is incredible. I want to talk about some of those things. But first, my talk is in three chapters. Three fun-filled chapters. The first chapter is computer graphics. Computer graphics, the driving force of our company. It is the simulation of virtual reality. One of the most challenging computation problems in all of the industry. After 25 years of pursuing real-time virtual reality, we have not achieved it not even close. But we're getting closer and closer every single day. Today, I want to show you something that's really great. This is by one of our partners, and I'll come back and I'll tell you about it in just a second. Invent yourself. I'm glad. Reinvent yourself. Don't just whip and say it's smooth. Invent yourself. I'm glad. Reinvent yourself. And stay out of the clutches of mediocrity. Invent yourself. I'm glad. Reinvent yourself. Change your tone. Change the tone. They can never categorize you. Reinvigorate yourself. I'd accept what is. But only after that you have invented. Reinvent yourself. And reinvent your life. Because you must. It is your life. And it's history and the present. In all those things to you. Okay, was that real? Or virtual reality? Let's take a look. Alright, audience participation. Okay? Left is real or right is real. How many people say right? This is not real. So how many people thinks this is real? It's got to be the rest. Come on. Okay, so already thinks this one's real. Alright? Next one. How many people thinks this one's real? Getting a little confused. How many people thinks this one's real? Okay, so this one's real. Alright, this is one of those raw paper scissors, please. Alright? How many people thinks this one's real? Okay? Well, it turns out that we're all on the same side. This one's not real. This one is RTX. That one is real. Is that amazing? By mimicking the physical properties of white, RTX has made it possible for us to perform real-time ray tracing for the very first time. It turns out ray tracing could be done in software. It is true. And the reason for that is because the first implementation of ray tracing was done in software. One of our researchers. A long time ago. And in fact, most films are software ray traced today. They run on a bunch of CPUs. They call it render farms. There's about a million and a half of those render servers running around the world, making moves all around the world. And so it stands to reason that ray tracing could be done in software. But as in everything else, our goal is to accelerate this particular domain of application. What we want to do is find a way to accelerate enough of it as quickly as we can so that it could be done in real time. Chad is going to show you a couple of these things. Chad, what are you going to show us here? So one thing I'm going to show you, which is, look, this is the new thing, is what is not very common in that video you saw as a whole record image you can see. It would have been done online for a few minutes, a few hours, even days. That video you saw at the beginning that we did with making all the rendered images were done in real time on a RTX hardware. And so some of those images were, a lot of those scenes were rendered about 30 FPS. And what we're showing you right here now is not from the commercial kind of put together. It's actually unique running real time. Wow. And so that's amazing. So this would be really useful for like a designer, professional designer. I want to see what my materials were like simulated for real using ray tracing. So they could swap materials. They can play with the compartments, open them up, see how the lighting works. Guys, this is all done in real time. You can even go to the exterior to see some of these shots were familiar. Again, you change the materials, make sure you didn't create any distractive reflections for other drivers. Kind of play around. We can turn some of the RTX effects on and off to show you this. It's really good. So ray tracing gives you a real shadow. And turn it back on. There you go. That's beautiful. Chad, thank you very much. Quick thing. Real exciting about it. It's so, and we're showing this in unity. It looks real awesome. It's actually going to be a failed and an experimental package April 4th. It's coming soon for guys. We're going to play. April 4th. All right, guys. Unity. Great work. Thanks a lot. Damn, Vivli. You're in the audience. We must be very proud of Chad. Chad, Vivli. All right. You practiced it. Raised it. Okay. So this is the Nvidia Touring RTX architecture. It is the greatest lead in computer graphics in 15 years since we started the programmable shadow remission. If you take a look at the imagery today, it's really at the limits of what you could do with programmable shadow. You need to kick it up a notch, take it to the next level of realism. What you saw was a 2080 Ti, the highest end of the touring architecture. 18 billion transistors, 32 trillion operations per second. 16 billion of it, 16 trillion of it, 60 point, 16 trillion of it, and the energy. The reason for that is for the first time touring architecture, split the energy and floating point execution so we can have, we can some concurrently. The reason for that is this. Back in the good old days, we would largely use our GPUs for shading. But in the future, we want to use it for ray tracing. The programs are really complicated. And when you do a lot of complicated program execution, the integer or the address calculation of program becomes to dominate. And so by putting it, making it concurrent, we could overlap the shading operations as well as ray tracing operations with concurrent floating float and integer operation. We also have this new technology called variable rate shading. Depending on what part of the screen it is, maybe the amount of shading doesn't have to be nearly as precise. Maybe the texture is not as relatively coarse. Maybe it's moving relatively fast. Or if you wouldn't notice it anyways. Using variable rate shading, we can reduce the amount of shading necessary. We have this new technology called mess shaders. It allows us to render really, really complicated scenes like rocks and geometry of mountains and enormous, enormous force of grass and rocks and just, you know, stop. Stop in the world. Stop in the world. Make it, make it, make it more interesting. Render stuff. It's called the incredibly fast stuff rendering system. Otherwise, no one is mess shaders. And it allows us to do things like level of detail adjustments. And of course, the big ticket item is ray tracing. Our first GPU to be able to ray tracing and intersection testing in real time. Lastly, one of the most important features of this GPU is a tensor for architecture. It allows us to do artificial intelligence for generating images, creating pixels that otherwise would have had to be rendered or fully calculated. And so notice the number of things that you can now do with artificial intelligence with super resolution. If we could find a way to create algorithms and neural network models that can process it so fast, we could reduce the number of pixels we calculate in fur, in fur, the rest of it, and as a result, achieve very high performance. Working on this part is called DLSS. We're making progress all the time. We're super excited about this future. There's no question in my mind. This is going to be a huge success. We just have to continuously innovate and create these new models. While creating the GPU is the first step, inventing the technologies the first step, and ultimately what's going to enhance the adoption is the entire ecosystem supporting it. And the ecosystem starts with the most pervasive computing 500 3D in the world, Microsoft Windows. And Microsoft Windows Direct X with ray tracing called DXR is now available. But that's just the API. That's the lower level API. On top of it are the game engines. The two most important game engines in the world, Unreal and Unity, represent 90% of the world's games. You just saw just now Unity with DXR and RTX acceleration as Chad said available April 4th for people to download and experiment. We also mentioned before that Unreal is developing their version of game engines. It's Unreal Engine 4.22, which will incorporate DXR. And then lastly, Vulcan RT. These represent basically the entire vast majority of the entire computer representation. And it is all coming together for a future of ray tracing. Then we have to create all the products. We now have Turing RTX graphics cards from top to bottom. From what you saw earlier, just 2080 Ti, we recently announced a Turing GPU for just over $200, $219. The lower end GPUs have no RTX, just the Turing shading architecture. For the higher end GPUs starting in 2016, whenever it says RTX has the ray tracing acceleration. But the Turing architecture now stands from $219 all the way to the highest performance in the world. And this year we have more notebooks than ever. The gaming notebook marketplace is growing super fast. It grew 50% just that in video last year, year over year. And we expect this year to be pretty great as well. And we have already seen more than 40 new laptops based on the Turing architecture has been announced. Let me show you a couple more demos. It is very clear that ray tracing is the next step in real time computer graphics. And the next generation of video views has started. This next game I want to show you is from the top of Nexon and it's built on top of Unreal Engine 4.22. It's really, really amazing. I think it doesn't matter how the technology works. Many of you in the audience understand how the technology works. It's really a marvel that we're seeing real time ray tracing. But what really matters in the final analysis is that things just look so much more beautiful than live. You know, everything is just alive somehow because the reflections work properly and the shadows work properly. It just looks much more realistic, much more alive. And as a result, developers can tell much better stories. It all started about 20 years ago. About 20 years ago, for the very first time, hardware 3D acceleration was possible because of a game name wake. It uses OpenGL for the very first time. Frankly, quick, if it wasn't because of quake, Nvidia wouldn't be here today. Every company needs a bit of a killer app. And in our case, it was the video game industry and the one that really kicked it into high gear was quake. It was so hard to render quake back then. It was just so hard to do it. And then you needed an accelerated to do it. And for the very first time, we were able to do quake in real time. Now, art, our engineers wanted to do something and make a contribution technologically to a community that has since worked on quake. It turns out quake has gone through several different iterations. And what we're going to show you is quake too. It's open sourced. And this is going to carry on some work that was done by Christophe. Christophe Sheed, one of the interns at Nvidia working at Nvidia Research. And we took it all the way. And what we're going to show you here is an original game, an original game. Now done with state of the art computer graphics manual. Let's take a little show with you. Alright, so what you're looking at over here is the resurrection of the original single core single spread running on a CPU quake to game engine. This one is that match. That match maps. And at the time, our CPUs are so fast now compared to 20 years ago, you can just render it soft and softer using a CPU. Go ahead. Of course, at the time on a single CPU, you just really do not get powered with elimination. Instead, they use light maps. So all the lighting is baked, standing. This is going to be it. Now what we added on top is all the eggs so that we can do this. No, no, no, no, no, ladies and gentlemen, wait for it. This is not the end. This is the beginning. Wait for it. Alright, now go. Everything is dynamic. You can change time of day. You can move around. Hold the reflection. The materials are physically based. Go ahead, keep going. Look, we'll just keep going. Go. We knew all. Yeah, at this point, I'm just letting them run things. It's just beautiful. So Alex, the only thing we could do is to leave programmers as added a lot of features. So the first thing we did was adding, adding, adding, and adding frames because without physical units, nothing works understay. The direct lighting, the indirect lighting, the reflections, the reflections, all based on ray tracing, all based on patterns. Once again, the CPU rasterized over here with fake global illumination. And on TX. Alright, we're going to take you to one of the actual game levels. We're game play. Alright, so this is before. This is before. This is after. As you can see, we now have physically based material. We can get glass, which reflects everything around it. We also added little fun things like volumetric lighting that you can see here with beautiful light shafts. And we have more interesting materials coming up like metal, grades, the here that's not reflecting the environment around it. No tricks. This is actually real. Don't faking it. And here's not a little code act moment. There we go. Beautiful volumetric lighting. Very moody. Again, before and after. Like in general, this is the definition of beauty for our computer scientists. And we have one more little surprise for you. Something else that we've added alas. We weren't sure if it was going to work today. So I'm going to let them show you. And of course, this is not quake without the BFG. Okay. Alright. Thank you. Alexey, good job. Man, you're all good job. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Alexey, good job. Man, you're all good job. Thank you. This is really incredible work. And this is obviously this is the work of love. We're going to contribute this back to open source. And the engineer is going to finish it off over the next month. And keep, you know, stay tuned. We'll close up a few more. But this is this is this is genuinely stated the art computer science and computer graphics coming together. And we're doing it in real time. And when we put it out in open source, it's going to be it's going to be a topic of great research, great discussion to advance future computer graphics. So that's real time computer graphics. Offline computer graphics. Offline computer graphics. Or rendered using render palm computer graphics. So that we can generate photo realistic images is used in every single industry today. Whether it's an architecture or product design. There's a whole community of 3d artists who use 3d graphics and rendering software to create amazing imagery and images. This is created by somebody. It's a fan out there who just loves to create art with this medium. Arduously, meticulously turns their imagination into something that comes alive. And of course, media and entertainment using it for making movies. A modern movie, a modern movie might have something along the lines of 2500, 3000 shots. And each one of those shots are a few seconds long. Just a few seconds long. And those few seconds would take a team of tens and tens of artists and designers. And it would take them literally the time of the film making production budget. And it would take a time to create those few shots. Whole bunch of studios were coming together and stitched out their shots together and create what you guys know. What we all know is what we're moving. Well, this process is incredibly arduous. And we wanted to bring accelerated computing to the rendering process for the very first time. This has largely the effort of CPUs because the computers are so complicated. The data size is so large. It has taken us literally 25 years to do this. And so finally this year we announced our TX. And we started working with all of the leading film quality design tool companies and firms to accelerate their tools and render systems. And I'm happy to announce that as of now, over 80% of the world's leading tools makers and film studios have adopted our TX. And by the end of this year, we should have all of them in production. We have some of them in production now. Arnold is ready and we're going to show you some examples of some of them. This is from a studio called the Man image engine. And this is work that they did for lost in space. I can't wait for second episode. Second, second. Let's take a look at it. Image engine. Image engine. Image engine lost in space. And you can see the work is arduous, it's meticulous. It takes so many people working together to create that one shot. It's layered by layer by layer. A meticulous process, what we ultimately see as the final film. What you saw there was really quite amazing. So in just a few seconds, it represents a shot. Our early adopters, our early developers have now benchmarked it for us. This is a take a look up here. This is the CPU with a tool-lake server. Okay, dual sky-lake server. 25 nodes takes 38 hours to render a shot. A shot of course of a few seconds is 30 frames per second. And each one of those frames are meticulously rendered. 25 nodes takes 38 hours. The power bill is about $70,000 for some 5 years. And the total cost of that data center for student equals 25 nodes is about $200,000. We've now done the same work that one shot with one node of what we call an RTX server. With four RTX 8000s, it took six hours instead of 38 hours. The cost of the server is $30,000, not $250,000. And the amazing thing is this, in the power bill that you would save, you could buy a server. Just with the power bill that you saved. I used to say the more you buy, the more you save, I think I was wrong. RTX servers are free. And you get another $30,000 to spare at the end of five years. So it's completely free. And so I said earlier that doing work efficiently is the most cost-effective way of doing anything. And of course, energy efficiency and getting things done quicker is really a great savings. You take a look at a major bill and it costs something like $350,000,000 to produce that bill. And the vast majority of it is post-production, which is otherwise known as rendering. And it might take something along the lines of a year and a half, a year to a year and a half. If you could even save one month on what is otherwise the one year-long project, the amount of money you could possibly save is in the millions. And so this is one of the reasons why this industry is such in a hurry to find ways to accelerate the rendering process into a accelerated production process. We're working closely with Pixar and they've been so excited about the technology. I can't wait to see the first major motion movie made by Pixar, render it completely on the TMS. The process of creating these movies are hard. It starts with modeling. And of course you got concept, you got modeling, you got texturing, you got rigging, which is basically putting the bones into characters. And once you put the bones into the characters that character essentially becomes a robot, you can animate that character. You could deform it, you could change the shape of the skin, you could force the core kinematics, you could inverse kinematics. And so as a result, you can animate these characters. You have to light it, and then of course you have to render it, make it look totally perfect. And then once you create the character, you have to compensate it with all the different characters you've seen and all the environments and all the special effects, all the special effects are done in physics simulation. It is so, so complicated. And I just told you that a shot may be assigned to, you know, a few shots, maybe assigned to a studio, a few shots could be assigned to another studio as result of multiple studios and multiple sites are all working on a movie at the same time. There are over 200 animation studios in the world today. Because of the nature of how we enjoy entertainment, because so many cultures are now starting to adopt this form of this media and this form of entertainment. And because there's so many different ways to enjoy content today, the number of studios have gone up significantly. And the amount of pressure that is put on the studios is increasing as well. They would like to drive the cost down, they would like to increase the productivity. But one of the greatest things that they want to do is find a way to work together. If you take a look at this map, this represents a few of them, there's over 200 of them, and there are sites all over the world. And yet, some of the sites are working on modeling, maybe another site is working on the simulations, maybe another one is working on animation. They're all using different tools, some of it is internal, some of it is third party. But it's got to come together in some kind of a holistic way. Could you imagine a world where there was no way to share documents because the content is too big because the workflows are too complicated. And yet each document requires hundreds and hundreds of human hours to do. Well, we have for work documents, we have Google Docs. Well, for 3D content creation, we have nothing. We have nothing. And so we wanted to create a tool that made it possible for studios around the world to collaborate. From for the workflow, the designers of it worked single workflow, which has all these different tools and all these different steps to be able to collaborate. We've been working on this for some time, and want to show you this great new technology from our company. It's called the Omniverse. The Omniverse basically connects up all the designers and studios. It works with every tool. It communicates, we communicate with all the tools through their plugins using USD and using MDL. And we only exchange all the things that we're dying at. We put it into this world, this portal that everybody can see. And so as a result, irrespective of what tool or what part of the workflow you're working on, you will see one version of the final content that you're creating. And it's highest possible. You could be on the laptop, maybe your computer doesn't have ray tracing, maybe you're using a particular tool. It's render is not quite up to the point of being able to do ray tracing. But all of you are working together in one workflow and everything looks beautiful. Everybody has one common understanding of what everybody is working on at that moment in time. Open collaboration tool works with all of the major 3D tools out in the world. We're getting great support. People are so excited about this. Let me now show it to you. Thanks and gentlemen, the Omniverse. Now we're going to demonstrate this very quickly. This is our team back there. Let's pretend for a second that they're all working in a different place. It doesn't matter. They're here today. But it doesn't matter that they're in a different place. The substance painter could be done in Montreal. The Unreal Engine could be done here in California. And the Autodesk Maya could be done somewhere in England. And all these tools, all these studios are global as I mentioned. And they're working on different parts of the design. Now notice in the case of Maya, we're doing the design. In the case of Unreal, we're composing the environment. In the case of substance, we're painting that airplane. And these three designers have, don't see what the other ones are doing. They can't see what the other ones are doing until Omniverse. These three tools are from three different developers. And three different third party vendors. But yet, we're going to have them see each other on the same Omniverse world. Okay, so what you're looking at over there is Omniverse. Now check it out. While one engineer, while one designer is changing the geometry, while another one is changing the scene, while another one is painting, it all shows up in one world. Can you guys see that? It's all showing up in one world. The geometry is changing. We could change the paint. We could create a different environment. This is Omniverse. Those are all the independent designers working separately. This is rendered with ray tracing. It doesn't matter what they have. And as a result, we have this beautiful world. Now Omniverse could run on your local workstation. It has an RTX in it. It can also run in a local workstation. And you can share with other people, you can stream it to other people in your work group. You could also put it in the data center. Or you could put it in a cloud. And we can render all of that and stream it to you. It doesn't matter how you would like to enjoy it. Omniverse is one shared world. What do you guys think? Okay, so working on this, this is, thank you guys. Let's come back to this slide. The studios we've talked to are so blown away by this. This is something they've been looking for a whole long time. And finally, we have essentially the Google Docs for 3D design, except it also works across all the headwalking-us tools. And all the data formats are different. But when they communicate with us and connect into the Omniverse, this is what you get to see. Where we have early access planning and come to this website, come to the Nvidia website, and develop it in the Nvidia Omniverse. Let us know if you'd like to have early access. Rendering is data center graphics. Omniverse ultimately will be data center graphics. Another data center graphics is GeForceNow. We've been working on GeForceNow for a few years. In fact, we've been working on it for about six years. And the reason we've been working on it is because it turns out that the vast majority of gamers in the world don't have access to a powerful graphics card. We have some 200 million GeForce gamers in the world, and they're growing. But yet, there's another billion PC gamers that don't have the necessary computer or don't have a GeForce card to be able to play the games at the level that they should. And so we decided several years ago that we would create a cloud gaming system. Not a service, not a store. It's not the Netflix of gaming. It's an open platform so that all the developers get to keep all their economics. All it is is a PC in the cloud. Think of it as a GeForce PC in the cloud. So whatever a GeForce PC can do for games, this can do. It's an open platform. It should be able to run everything. If it runs on a GeForce PC on your desk, on your laptop, it should be able to run it in the cloud. It is virtualized so that we could share it across a whole data center and to be as efficient as possible. But yet the entire stack has to be exactly the same as the stack that we have on PCs, because one, the software to just run. No sporting, no onboarding, it just works. And it would be streamed to PCs, the other billion PCs that we can't reach. And that's what GeForce now is about. There are 500 plus games in there today. Basically the games you love and enjoy on PC. It's on Steam, the Epic Store, or you play. You know, all these different game stores. If you bought it, if you bought the game, and you get on top of GeForce now, it should be streamed to a Mac, Chromebook, low-end PC, a laptop, leftover PC from years ago. You'll be able to stream basically very high quality games. GeForce now has over 500 games. We have 15 data centers. About 300,000 users. Players are using it all the time now. We've been in beta for some time. And there's a million gamers on the waiting list. A million gamers on the waiting list. We're trying not to tell too many people about it, because the waiting list is actually very large. And so we're sitting here trying to include the quality of our service, and move its reliability. It's a very complicated problem. We want to make sure that latency is as short as possible. Never any hitches. The sound quality is excellent. The interactivity with the mouse is great. And what we've discovered is this. You can build the world's largest data center while making a difference. You've got to build a whole bunch of data centers all over the world. And it turns out that the number of gamers around the world is quite large. And they're spread out all over the world. And so what we need to do is we need to come up with a system that allows us to go well beyond these five 15 data centers to support these 300,000 users. But to find a way to reach all of the edges of the world through partnerships. And so we created this idea called the GeForce Now Alliance. GeForce Now Alliance basically is us creating a server architecture. Developing all the necessary software. And partnering with telcos around the world. Who can't wait to put the service on their 5G networks. The 5G networks are their Wi-Fi networks, broadband networks. They can't wait to put additional services on top. And so these alliances are all over the world. They can be in countries all over the place. Today we're announcing two big news. We're announcing today that the first two Alliance partners, GeForce Alliance, is Softbank in Japan. And LGU plus in Korea, two major gaming markets. I want to thank you for your support. Our strategy is to put these alliances, set them up in countries all over the world. And they would have data centers, multiple data centers. With GeForce Now servers. And we will host the service and maintain the service for everybody. And the first step therefore is to create the server. We call it the RTX server. The RTX server is super dense. It's super dense. 40 GPUs and 8U. 40 of our state of the RTX use an 8U. You can virtualize it. And as a result of virtualizing it, you can share it with 30 320 different current users. It's optimized end to end. So you could use it for the entire cloud gaming GeForce Now service. You could use a rendering. You could use omnibers. But that alone is not enough. And it turns out the reason for that is because storage and networking is really complicated problem. Once you get the data on the server, we can stream it. And we can compute it. We understand that problem so well. But it turns out the entire infrastructure with hundreds of thousands of gamers all playing at the same time essentially running the super computer in real time. The inner connects, all become bottlenecks. Everything becomes an issue. And so we decided to create a pie. We created a pie that can scale up to 32 of these RTX servers. And within 10 racks, we can support 1200 and 8 GPUs. It's all connected with high-speed bottlenecks in the band. And we can therefore support 10,000 current gamers at the same time. This is what it looks like. This is one pie. This is one pie. And our alliance partners would install these pie and basically within a week they should be up and running and the service is ready to go. Whether it's all the different countries in Southeast Asia or Eastern Europe where a big part of the market, market gamers are emerging, we could set these things up and work with the telcos, it's an alliance partner, and bring GeForce now service to all of them as quickly as possible. These servers can now support three basic use cases. The first chapter ends here, and it's about the fact that graphics is both number one, going to go to the next level, it's going to also go into the data center. And data center graphics requires a brand new architecture. And this architecture already supports three use cases and we have others to come that I'll share with you in the future. Our engineers have been working on something really cool, and so let me play for you now. Ladies and gentlemen, everything you see is in real time. What do you guys think? Let's another round of applause for the engineers on the creative artisan video. Very few technology companies get to sit at the intersection of art and science and it's such a great pleasure to be here. And to be able to focus on doing work like this and to bring joy to so many people such a creative process, and it just blows my mind every single year from the key brain, raising it to another level. And video is the ILM of computer graphics, real time computer graphics, and you can really see it. Chapter two. Chapter two is about AI and HPC. As I mentioned today, we're going to talk in three chapters, first chapter is computer graphics. Now we're going to switch gears and talk about AI and HPC. If you look at AI and HPC, we've been talking about deep learning for some time. And deep learning is a part, is a new algorithm, new type of algorithm, great-great as part of machine learning, which is used, which is used for natural understanding and computer vision, which largely builds up AI. Now, underneath AI there's a whole bunch of other stuff like robotics and such. But in the areas that we've been talking about, this is a taxonomy that you will. Data science is the fastest growing field of computer science today. It is the most sought after job. It is the most oversubscribed course in leading universities where there's Berkeley or Stanford or CMU or NYU. It is so oversubscribed in a reason for that is this. It has become, because of several different factors, it has become the fourth pillar assigned to the method. Theoretical, of course, the Einstein method, the thought experiment, the experimental method, Newtonian physics, through experimentation, simulation methods, today's scientists using it from molecular dynamics and such. And now we have a data driven data science method. And it's made possible because of three factors, an enormous amount of data that we can now collect, sensors everywhere, digital everything, phones everywhere, cameras everywhere. We can now have great sensors collected, great amount of information, customers clicking on your wall sites, customers clicking on your apps, all of that creates data. Second is breakthroughs in machine learning algorithms, whether it's deep learning or machine learning, and the approaches that has emerged recently, and then lastly, computation. And we've been fortunate that we've been a big part of creating the computation that makes all of this possible. These three factors continuously feed on each other. And then now data science is a pillar of the scientific methods that allows us to solve problems that were previously impossible. We're solving problems that were just previously impossible. Now when we talk about data science, we talk about deep learning, talking machine learning, and AI, I want today to frame it for you. The pipeline to workflow starts with data. And there's a stage of the first ingesting of data, the bringing of data, called data analytics. Then it goes, and from data analytics, your goal is, the goal is to take data and join it from a whole bunch of data lakes, create what is called a data frame. From that data frame, tabular data, the rows, the rows, or all of the instances, it be well, and all of the columns are features. The features could be where you live, what your preferences are from movies, it connects all kinds of things. And so all of the features that you might want to learn from, that's called feature engineering. You take all of this data in, do all of this munging and wrangling, and what comes out of this gigantic table, and that gigantic table could be anywhere from gigabytes large to terabytes long. Could you imagine a spreadsheet that's terabytes large? First of all, it wouldn't load on a normal computer, not to mention what would you do with it at all. And so you do that data wrangling, you do all of that processing, and analytics comes out of it, is engineered features with a large amount of data that is now in the data set. That you can now use for predictive analytics to learn from that data set. And that is what we call AI. Some people call it AI, some people call it machine learning, some people call it deep learning. Depending on the field of science that you're in, if you're an image recognition, of course, you can just use camera inputs. If you're trying to understand something with related disease, the areas of the data source could come from a whole lot of places, including genomics, could be medical imaging, it could even be your family history. From that, you run it through frameworks, and those frameworks ultimately gives you a model, that predictive model. That predictive model would verify, allows you to now predict the next outcome from other input. So the new input comes, you can now predict the future. We call that prediction process inputs. So data analytics, machine learning, or AI, or deep learning, and then inputs. There's some words that we use, and for some of the people in the audience want to kind of new to data science, this is such an important field. I think it's worth a lot for everybody to understand it. And the words that you hear, the words that you hear, are things like this. CSV, commas, values, Park, Park is a file format that came out of Park, it's a column or database. Notice the features that are in columns. It's a much faster way of reading it. A Duke distributed file system, it is the beginning of big data, the ability to distribute, to use a large data center, distribute files all over it, and use a pretty large compute engine. ETL extract, transform, and load, basically the data analytics process, pandas, the data analytics programs to the libraries, basically the spreadsheet of big data, or the spreadsheet of data analytics in the spreadsheet, Spark for a large data center, graph analytics, your tensorflow, PyTorchermenix, MXNX, Cyclic, Learn, X, X, X, X, X, X, X, X, X, X, these are all frameworks for machine learning or deep learning. And then on the inference side, you have tensorflow serving, you have Onyx, and you have SafeMakerNia. These are some of the most important and most popular, large scaleout, inference service, and back ends. And so these are the words that are going to come up over and over again. And I just wanted to place it on a graph, so you have feeling for how all this stuff works. Now, our words, the words that I use, that talks about these areas, QIO is about vectorizing and massively paralyzing the input, the loading of the IIO, really complicated problem, and to take it from desk, you put it into system memory, and it is now in memory in the right formats. And the format is in the format of Apache era. 2DFs, data frame, it is largely compatible with pandas, except its GPU, et cetera, true graph, graph analytics, QDN, basically, and videos deep learning API that got this whole revolution going. QML, which is our family of machine learning algorithms from random forest and decision trees, you know, King Nearest and King, means regression algorithms, tensorRT, our optimizing compiler that takes the output of this, which is a model, and compilers down to a target, where there is a little tiny computer, or a giant supercomputer, or a cloud computer, and our inference server, that runs on top of Kubernetes, called tensorRT inference server, allows us to now run it in a hyperscale data center and make it possible for millions of people to be doing inferencing at the same time. That's exhausting. It was exhausting to say, it must be exhausting to listen to. All right, if that wasn't hard enough as it is, this is what it looks like when you look at it as an ecosystem. It turns out building a chip, building a great chip is a nice beginning, but it turns out it's useless until the world's developers and users can take advantage. And that's why it's so important for us to work with ecosystem. And video is an open platform company. We create all these libraries in a way so that it's software defined and integrateable into modern systems. It runs on three computing platforms, personal workstations, servers, and cloud. This is the way computing is consumed today. If you're not in all of that, you're nowhere. Next is the system software stack on top. CUDA, and this subset of CUDA today for this chapter AI in HTML called CUDAX AI, it has data analytics, has graph, analytics machine learning, deep learning for training, and deep learning for inference, and it has to go on the services to the world to the developers in frameworks, in cloud services, and then to be deployed in cloud platforms. And this is the ecosystem at large. Today, we turned out we have a ton of announcements. And I just wanted to put all of the announcements into one slide. So the first announcement is that we now automatically, automatically do the mix precision necessary for our tensor-apport architecture, which is the video's new AI architecture, which you can use, our tensor-apport, and it's now optimized automatically for support in tensor flow and PyTwarch and the next step. It turns out that precision is a very complicated problem. There are ranges, there are precision issues. Sometimes you could do it in FD, 60, sometimes you can't. Sometimes you could do it in int-8, sometimes you can't. You've just got to find out when you can and when you can't. Well, it turns out that compiling problem is a very complicated problem. Especially since you have to wait a week, and the answer comes back and off by a little tiny bit. These convergence problems are just historically challenging for high-performance computing. Well, tensor-core is now optimized automatically for these frameworks. When you get X-factor speed-ups, automatically you do nothing. Number one announcement. Number two announcement is data bricks started by a Matea Sahari. Matea, look. Matea, who was the founder of Spark when he was back at Berkeley, started a company called Data bricks. They have machine learning and AI platform that is up in the cloud. It's really popular, super successful company. They have now incorporated and accelerated rapids, which is the data analytics in the machine learning part of our framework, of our API into the platform. Google Cloud now has rapids acceleration. Microsoft today announced that they have rapids acceleration for Azure machine learning. And the next sensor announced that we're partnering together, that one of the world's leading professional services company. And my sideclips were so visionary, that lean into data analytics and AI years ago. They're just one fantastically. It's great to partner with them because we now have rapids in our CUDA X API and platform integrated into their services. And they're seeing great results from them. They serve three quarters of the world's top 500 Fortune companies, top library companies. And so it's really great to partner with that sensor. Also announcing today that Onyx runtime is integrated natively and video tensor RT. So all of that today, all so that you can accelerate all of these frameworks and all these AI production systems and all of these systems so that your productivity can be as great as possible. So I want to thank all of the engineers and all the partners for making this possible. Thank you. The question is what happens to all this stuff? We look at these things and they're CNN's. And the industry is benchmarking R&50. And it's a little bit like benchmarking Quake. And it's now at 974 frames per second. And we're benchmarking R&50. We're focused on CNN's. And yet, yet, yet, yet all of this, all of this is about ultimately creating services that are incredible and do incredible things. One of the areas where in the end, we're trying to lead you. Is this idea of an AI conversational age that when you pick up your phone or you're talking to a speaker, a microphone, somehow that AI service is super smart. It's super smart. It somehow figures out how to, when you're talking to it, it's got to do the necessary processing speech recognition. It has to understand your language and convert it to the language it wants to do processing in. It has to make a recommendation. Maybe it has to do a search. Maybe it has to answer a question. And that question could come back with another question that answered to come back with another question, which is you could maybe upload an image. And now it has to upload an image, has to recognize the image, and has to come back maybe with an answer, maybe with another question. In this conversational back and forth with an AI agent has to be fast. And it has to be really nice. Would you take a look at the number of neural networks that's involved in the future? It's actually quite long. People think there's one AI somehow running in the cloud. It's just not true. It's like any other software program. These are all models that are sitting in containers and they're running all over the data center. And at the end of each container, you're sending an output to a REST API to another container running in Kubernetes or something like that on another server. And these containers, services, are sending inputs and outputs to each other. And it's just one program, one service. And it connects all of these different models. It is the reason why people say that East and West data traffic in the data center is exploding. And the reason for that is because machines are talking to the machines, a lot more than work talking to the machines. All of these neural networks are talking to each other across containers, across servers. Does that make sense? This is the future. And these models are going to get chained together and for conversational type models. It is very likely that latency will ultimately define quality of service. And therefore, we have to process it incredibly fast. Here's the challenge. It's not one network. There are species of networks. There are different network types and there are different species of them. And every data center has got a different one. And the reason for that is because it's an architect. And some of them in eight works. Some of them in eight works sometimes. And that's 16s got to work the rest of the time. That's 16 always works for machines. And sometimes you have to put all the way back to that. Sometimes all network runs in that p32. Because that's all the time you've got to optimize it. Sometimes after optimization, there's only so much precision you're afford to lose. And so you've got to make precision. And sometimes it's good enough. You might even be able to use ported energy sometimes. So this data center is heterogeneous in the number of the types of models in front. And it has to be heterogeneous in the type of precision that it runs. And it runs across a whole bunch of servers that are connected together. This is the future, the near future, the near future of AI in the cloud. There's somebody that I've invited who's going to show you something that's really, really, really cool. Gohan, it's a good friend. Thank you very much. Coming here. I've helped show us something amazing. Cool. So what I'd like to show you today is the big app. It's running on my phone right here. And for this demo, I'm just going to be a regular big user. I'm just going to use this app like a regular user would. And I've been thinking about redecorating a couple of things in my house. I want to kind of change some of the feel a little bit, kind of make them fresh them up a little bit. And I've learned that one way to do this is by changing the lighting. But as a user, I don't much about lighting. So I'm going to use the app to be app has three icons, three buttons. Maybe there's a camera button left, search by which, there's a text button in the middle. And I'm going to use the microphone button here. Right. And I'm just going to ask it about lighting. The house. So the first query goes like this. Let's try it. What are the different types of lighting for the kitchen? According to StealingHome.org, as far as general lighting in the kitchen, there are three main types. Surface, Precept, and Tended Fixation. I don't know how to call up three things. That's amazing. What just happened. So of course, we're going to explain it more deeply. But for the audience very quickly, what just happened is this. Your service recognized your speech. It figured out what you were trying to say. It went to find the information. It then presented back to you in two ways. One way is to say it back to you. So it has to do speech and emphasis. And then the other way, it had to compose this page to present the information to you. And so look, look, look, what just happened, okay? Speech and what came out was visual and verbal. Several different models all happened not to mention the search algorithm behind it. Because it's right. And I just wanted to highlight exactly the concept. But this part up here, I've called the intelligent answers. And that goes to the top documents that came back. That's the query. Reasons over them real time. In response to the query. And it finds the best passage from all those documents, all those sentences, that answers the questions that pass. And within that passage, it highlights both the specific phrase that we think is the answer. So that worked for the kitchen. And as a user now, I want to learn about other books. Maybe I'm looking at a living. Let's try ask about a living. What are the different types of lighting for the living room? And according to mysteries.com, living rooms require three types of lighting. Ambient, cast and action. And go on, I got to tell you, I just realized something as you asked. I'm missing one of those three lightings in my house. That's why my eyes going bad. Honey, our task lighting is in trouble. We have that idea. And we have ambient light. And the accent lights working great. Well, I actually have a problem. I'll find out more about the accent lights in just a second. But the thing I want to highlight here is it's a very consistent experience. Again, for this query, there was speech in. The intelligent answers card, your speed answer, and the speech feed out. The text speech service is reading out the speech. But the other thing that I want to call out is there's a little embedded image in the answer. And as a user, I'm visually drawn to that. I want to learn more about images. And I actually don't have accent lights in this. So I'm going to learn more about accent lights. Show me images of accent lighting for the living room. I've pulled up some images for you. So here you see it has a whole bunch of images of living rooms with accent lights. But I like one of these. I'm going to pick the first one. And I can actually look at it in detail. And up top there, there's a button that we call the visual search button. When I click on it, not only can I see the whole image, but I can actually select different parts of the image and find some portions of the image that may be almost. So in this case, wow, let's go. I'm just going to center in on maybe the lamp that I'm looking at. And not only has I just that does it find images that are simpler to the lamp. But now there's the shopping tab. Let's do this. I can click on it. And I can buy lamps that have to look similar to the area that I selected. So that's pretty awesome. And that is object detection that's also happening in real time. As I changed selection, this is running in real time. And yet, the latency for these things are critical. If this takes three seconds to refresh, you know this. So our latency budgets for these models are super tight. And that is kind of a very key aspect of these things. So Jensen, what I hope I showed you is an experience here that sort of brings together four very different types of ones. So there was speech recognition. There was the intelligent answers. There was the text speech readout. And there's object detection. But to me, as the user, it was just one immersive fluid experience. As a user, I didn't have worry about all the AI that happened in the background. And that's to be the best time for AI. Just works. But of course, in this room, we're all technologists. You know how hard it is to get these things to work seamlessly. And for the Bing app, which by the way, in try, is available on iOS and Android devices today. For the Bing app, we delight and we use the Azure NCDs VMs to live and be able to use it. That's awesome. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Guhan, Serenade, Yannis! I like to say your name. All right. That is an example of extreme inference. Extreme inference. That pipeline is complicated. It went through a lot of different models and imagined hundreds of millions of people doing it this way. Well, we're working with the industry at large to accelerate inference and to be able to deploy services. Tensor RT has been downloaded so many times from 300,000 to 6 times growth in just one year. And some of the best services, some of the most popular services that you guys know of in a whole bunch of them, that I didn't list here are now using and being accelerated by video GPUs as we've done with Tensor RT. Voice search and image search and recommendation systems, assistance and newsfeed and translation and e-commerce. All of these things have modules of AI models and they're accelerated by video GPUs. One of my favorite uses of inference is medical imaging. There are a thousand radiologists in here just in the United States alone. We also have the best trained radiologists in the world. They used to be able to study. They used to be able to look at a study and study it for 20 minutes. Now they barely have four minutes to study the same thing. The pressure on them is incredible. It is the largest operation in the hospital. And yet, early detection is the best way, the best way that stops something before it gets worse. And so the question is how do we apply deep learning to enable all of these radiologists and augment them so that when they're doing their work, there's an assistant sitting next to them helping them along, maybe at the end of the day they're doing QA. And meanwhile, recognizing that there is no way that one institution, one group, can possibly treat all of the neural networks for all of these rare diseases. Many of them happen very infrequently and so many of them have experts and specialists in the field. Well, so what we decided to do is this. We decided instead of being the one company to solve it all, we would help them create tools and put it in the hands of radiologists all over the world. Give them AI tools and then give them an AI infrastructure. Make it super easy for them to share work among themselves, but we've got to give them a starting point. So we started with pre-trained models, 13 pre-trained models of an NGC. They're incredibly well done. We work with radiologists and research hospitals and we dedicate ourselves to make amazing pre-trained models. The second thing we have a tool that basically is an AI that's going to create AI. And it helps with the assistance of essentially annotating through the laboratory's work of annotation. And then we can do transfer group. We can fine tune these models with the data that you provide. So you download a pre-trained model, you annotate your data, you then fine tune that model, and then we compile that into a model that you can use. And then we make it possible for you to deploy it easily, the entire framework I described earlier. This entire process and the end is easy piece. And seeing you use all of easy piece, that's very technical. It's being used all of the world. We're so happy that NGH and IHOS use some of the leading DKFZ, some of the world's leading research hospital. And then using it for assistance of annotation or the deployment of the model, or integrating it into their own tools, all of this is open source and will make it available for researchers all of the world. So we call this the Clara AI toolkit and you can come in down on it. Right? Thank you. Data science is the new HPC challenge. HPC using computers, very large computers, to solve very difficult problems. Because the data is so large, because the computation necessary is so great, this is the new HPC chair. And just to show you one of the examples, and there are so many examples during the talks at GTC, then Walmart's going to give a great talk. I can't imagine the world's largest company, surely has the world's largest data, and they're doing, they have millions of skews, millions of skews simultaneously that they're mentoring and forecasting, and they have stores all over the place. And they have to find exact right level of inventory for every single skew to arrive at exactly the right store for exactly the right time, because during every season is a little bit differently. Maybe there's a run on something special like bananas, different types of products have different seasons and demands, and they have to monitor and they have to ingest all of that data and use it to train a machine learning model so that they can protect inventory faster. Well, because of our platform, they could do it now practically in real time. You should be able to listen to their talk. There's so many other talks here related to using Embedius machine learning platform to accelerate data and all of its data science. Well, we have, we have, we have somebody here, Aaron Williams. Aaron, I can't see you right here. All right, Aaron, welcome to GTC. Thanks. Aaron has been working with Charton, one of the world's largest cable operators to apply data science to solve their problem. So why don't we change to, let's go to your demo. Let's take a look at it. Yeah, sure. This is a really exciting real world example of putting AI to work for data scientists. As Jensen was saying, we're working with the network operator that has 25 million subscribers connecting to half of 500 million, sorry, 500,000, LTE towers and Wi-Fi networks. Those connections are the really the lifeblood of this business and that data is super important. So what we're going to show is how we can put AI to work to help the network operator make smarter decisions using these predictive algorithms. Now the decision is just to go to the end of it and work backwards. The decision they're trying to do is they're trying to figure out where to place Wi-Fi access points to offload from the cellular traffic so that they can provide the best possible quality of service. And then of course, increase the capacity for their company. But you don't want to place it randomly everywhere. They're adding 10,000 of these Wi-Fi access points per month. That is a big decision. They can have a side where to put them. And they can save a lot of time and money if they put them in the right place. And so what we're going to do is help them predict where to put those Wi-Fi access. Okay, that's awesome. And so the first step of course is we have to take the data in. We have to do basically ETL extracts, transform and load. We have to do basically data analytics. And this is a lot of data. It's a terabyte of data per day. They've got coming in. Now, when you're talking about data scales that big. But usually you know what people do when they have a terabyte of data that comes in every single day. Ignore it. That's right. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Because tomorrow it's going to come back again. That's right. And you'll ignore that one too. Because they'll come back next week. That's right. That's the beautiful thing about recurring data. Obviously, obviously they would like to use this data. Yeah. This terabyte of data. This terabyte of data is not also a clean set of data. Of course, it's coming in from multiple different data source. They've made some acquisitions over the years. That means they've got gold mines of data that they all need to combine into a single industry. The industry calls it give it a great name. It's called a data lake. Yeah. Right. The data lakes got all these different formats. It's all messy data. And some people call it dark data. Because you're never going to look at it together. Yeah. To your point, what they were doing before, spending eight days to be able to transform that data into a usable set of data. And this was all done manually. We had data scientists, dozens of data scientists spending their time transforming this data to making use. So let me see if I understand a terabyte of data coming in every day. It takes eight days to process one terabyte of data. Yeah. Yeah. To make it usable. So guess what? Pretty soon, you're going to be in. You know, guess how many days of data we're not getting watched. Right. So here's what we've got. I'm on the left hand side here. You can see these diff this sort of incoming data. This is the complexity of the data that they had coming into the system. And dozens of different sources, all kinds of different formats. We're going to use a product called data log of really awesome products for being able to transform that data into usable data. The first step in that process is by the way, data log is really fantastic. They take it. So this is Tim's company. I think Tim is watching Tim. Good job. Go ahead. Yeah, they are great. So what we're going to do first is to find it on college. This is basically just a knowledge graph that helps us transform what the data is that we have to the data is that we want. And so we've defined here the different data sets that we want each of these data sets then we can use AI to be able to transform the data we have into this data set. Yeah, now what's really amazing what Aaron just said is this just imagine. So you have you have basically data. Let's let's say you have data sets coming from 10 different places. It's the same data. It's about the same thing. But the formats all different. The names that they use the labels that they use the columns they use the features what they just the names of use for features are different, but just a little different. You know, maybe your name spelled just a little differently. If you and I were to look at the database, we would be able to tell that this column in this rose the same thing. But to a computer program, they're basically exactly different. Now what we need to do is we need to have to say eyes that are basically looking out all of the data us were taking it in and realize that you know what? You know what? That JNSE and JN-HSU is the same person. It's the same person. It's okay. Yeah, all in there. Let's let's go look at actually what it looks like when we train these models. So this is an example of a model that we've trained for being able to predict these values. You can see that the different values that we're coming in on the left hand side, the values that we were predicting on the top there. You can see how successful this model is of being able to determine the different kinds of data coming in with the different data that we need in our intelligence. You were off by two. Yeah. So this is interesting though, right? Because sometimes you will you'll confuse an IP address for a different kind of data. Sometimes you know these things are they look the same sometimes. The good news is we've trained this model so well that it's 99.9% which is much better than invested in eight days once a data science is done together. Now it takes it would take days by hand. That's right. We want to automate it. Yeah. Not to mention just the competition of loading the informatics, joining, grouping by this and doing the sequel processing. You guys are only within the sequel process. It takes so much energy to do eventually. You have this thing called a data frame that data frame and comes into another amazing product. This amazing product is from a company called Homicide. Isn't it right? Ever to that company? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's the company that I'm saying that you and Todd started and and Todd is taught out the audience. You know, Todd Todd. Good job man. Good job. So Todd, Todd realized the importance of GPO accelerated data science quite frankly almost before everybody practically not just momentarily before me. Okay. And then he then he came and told me then I realized hold on a second. This is a big. This is a high performance computing problem. And so so we've been working together for some time. I'm the size. You guys were an amazing work. Now talking. And now here's the data. Yeah. So so now we've got all this clean data right now. We want to actually put it to work. So we're going to bring it into homicide. Homicide is a sequel database that is built to run on GPUs. And it also has a visualization engine. Let's cut to the dashboard. We can see what that looks like. Now this is 500 million rows of that network access data. Looking at this. This covers 250,000 access. You got to let that moment sink it. You guys know what a spreadsheet with 500 million rows look like. I know. This is 200. I remember C1. That big. Yeah. 215,000 access points across the entire US. I'm a left hand side there. You can see this really nice heat map showing where those access points are and where they're being used the most. Let's let's me into a high actually just because you can see how easy it is to see me to get a much clearer picture of a specific part of your data. So now look how we've seen that we're seeing the detail of what's happening in state of Ohio. I'm going to go use the time chart here in the middle to zoom in not just by location, but now by time as well. See how when we changed to the chart at the bottom there now we're seeing hourly results to top. And as we scrub over to the right. We're seeing all of the charts changing in real time to show us what happens at different time frames in that data set. Now, just this is what part because what's actually happened behind the scenes here. We're running hundreds of sequel queries against that database. There is no way you could do this on seepies. Only possible because we've architected run it was like yesterday morning that sequel was a batch job. That's right. You guys are now watching this in real time. And this is crazy. This is no indexing no aggregation. This is 500 million rows of bodies. Are you guys getting the sequel used to be something you would want with Hadoop and it would be a batch job. That's right. You know, now you're doing this interactively and you're visualizing it in real time. Now this is just the first step though. Because now we've now we're actually seeing the historical data. Let's get to the prediction. Let's get in our time machine and start to see what's happening in the future. We're going to do that using a Jupyter notebook. So we'll switch over to the Jupyter notebook now. And this is a interface that all data scientists are familiar. It's Python. We're going to actually in the first step there on the left. We're going to actually get a pointer to that data sitting in the homicide memory in GPU memory. We're going to use that pointer to do the feature engineering that you talked about before. And on the right hand side, we're going to run our XG booths to do the training to do our machine learning. Very familiar toolkit here of tools. That pointer is exactly a pandas interface, which is what you're looking for if you're a data scientist back. So these tools give us those predictions. Once we get those predictions, we're going to push them back into on the size we can make a complete visualization of what that looks like. Did you guys see this? So first step is data analytics and within data analytics, you could use it on the side to visualize it. Just take a look at the data. So you can get a feeling for it. Then once you get once you do that, you've done the feature engineering, you take that into a data frame, you put that into XG booths, that XG booths, your machine learning out that machine learning algorithm is going to take the previously collected information and all of the features and it's going to learn a model that predicts the future from those features. We're going to come up with a new model and let's not forget about rabbits. Rapids is an important piece of all this that ties it all together. So we're using that here with these data frames that you talked about to be able to do this kind of prediction. Okay, we push the data back into on the side. Let's go back to that dashboard now so we can see what that looks like. We'll see on the time chart now we have this dotted line that goes into the future. So as we scrub through again, we see that same interactive experience scrubbing the data and now we're seeing predicted results for where we think the usage is going to be across the state of Ohio. And you can see the same sort of interface, the same interactivity that you get now using these predicted results coming from rabbits using. And guys, you just saw in just really quick moment here predicted analytics in practice from the beginning to the end. And if we could accelerate everything and what Errim was saying was it's called Rapids. Rapids is the machine learning framework, the data analyst, the data size framework that we hope and source underneath it. There's a whole bunch of engines. Those engines are basically CUDAX and Rapids is now open source. And the important thing is, is that you see, see down here, this is where I grew up, Anita Kentucky. And there's no traffic there at all. I think here, here, somebody type in Anita Kentucky, just Anita Kentucky. Let's see. Just one axis point. Come on. Give us one axis point. That's it. That's where I grew up. One intercession. Not kidding. Not kidding. All right. So every still battle. That is. So that was my, that's where I came to. And so, so, so here we saw the entire entire, the entire type of what, what, what, how long did it take for and how long does it take now? Right. So we're talking about eight days before just to the point where we had some data we could do something interesting with. And then taking us hours to do queries out of that, right. Now we're talking about four minutes. We have to get data the way we wanted. That's near real time. And then what you're seeing here is absolutely interactive engagement with that data. So it's just a completely different paradigm of what's possible. So here we go. Data scientists, the most sought after professional in the world today. They're sought after in every single industry, never single company. And then once they get them, they make them sit eight days. As they work on data that is eight days old, seven days old. Okay. And so, so, so that makes no sense. What we want to do is when I celebrate the work, give them the instrument of their science, give them the instrument, the tool of their science so that they could do their lives work and to do their lives for you. It's possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Aaron Williams. Thanks. Thanks, Jason. Todd, you guys got something good going. Okay. So what we need to do is we need to build, we need to build high performance computers for this whole new area called design design, design automation, computer a design, design, styling, media and entertainment, climate simulation, energy discovery, molecular dynamics. They all have high performance computers. They all have workstations at the engineers and scientists in research for calm. Well, there's a whole field now called Data Scientists. There are three million of them around the world. Three million of them around the world, as I mentioned. It is over subscribed to never single class. We taught 100,000 data scientists ourselves last year. Our program is called Deep Learning Institute. We taught a hundred thousand ourselves. Their classes all look web. This is an area that is not agreement-excited. And the reason for that is because there's three things that I mentioned that came together. The availability of data, the machine learning algorithms, and hypercomics computing has made a possible for us now to use this as the fourth pillar of scientific discovery. We think there needs to be a new type of computer built. And so we've decided that the workstation has to be re-engineered. New type of workstation with very, very fast storage, very, very fast I.O. Really fast competition with very fast members. This type of architecture, a workstation for data scientists, is really complicated to build. In fact, just us building it, installing it, building the software, and tuning the whole computer to deliver the performance is not easy. We're basically taking what otherwise is a high performance computing data center IT team to shrink it into one box and make it possible for us to ship these like appliances all over the world. We came to this idea because some of the world leading researchers were building it themselves and some of the companies at the forefront and AI were building these machines themselves and they were building it right in front of us and they asked, how do we make this easier? It came to us because customers were asking for it as we decided to build the workstation for data scientists and this is the performance. Look at this. This box, if you were to run it the old way, it would be the blue bar and you run it with one RTX 8000 or two RTX 8000 and now you basically have a performance similar to what Aaron was showing you. The industry is so excited about this because the demand is just right there. All of the world's leading computer makers have joined us in this endeavor and today we're announcing a brand new family of workstations. We call it a data science workstation and it's going to be available from the world's leading computer makers, Dell, HP Lenovo and all of our partners. I want to thank you for joining us. This is a good way to get going for one data scientist. However, the jobs, many of them, many of the jobs are so big, it's impossible to fit on one computer. And that's why we say that data science is the new HPC. It's the new HPC. Now, before I go into HPC, let me give you a taxonomy also of high supercomputers and high performance computers created. This chart, this by the way, this is JHH Mathematics. Inside and video, that's called COMAP. It is not accurate but it's right. Are you guys following me? It's not accurate because you're going to unit pick it. It's going to be off. But if you study it, you go darn it. I think you stood on. Okay? All right, goes like this. Basically, high performance computers are built in for two fundamental applications. On the one hand, you want to build something with capacity. Okay, with capacity, this is the side. The other way, this vertical side, capacity, capability. Capability is building a computer. You have a computer, the largest possible computer so that you can run a simulation as fast as possible or the largest possible simulation you could have had. A capability machine. That is designed in a way that we call supercomputers. For very few jobs, very, very, very long ones, and you want to get it done as quickly as possible or you want to do the biggest one you can. The second is called a capacity machine. This capacity machine, otherwise known as hyperscale, uses efficient cost computers, efficient cost computers. Millions of them. And what you want to do is you want to serve millions and millions and hundreds of millions and ideally billions of people with small jobs, with many small jobs. Okay? So the architecture that you do, you create, or hyperscale in the architecture you create for supercomputers are not the same. This is called scale out. This is called scale up. This has maybe a million nodes at the data center. This has tens of thousands. Super computers. What I show here is the compute. It is the computation load. Not the blocks, but the blocks as in instances, not time. Okay? The number of computers is not the same. The number of instances of compute is a billion pedophlocks. For example, a billion pedophlocks where the S is units, not time. And this is hundreds of millions of people concurrent data centers of two types, both are hyperboons computing data centers. This is where supercomputers go, capability machines, scale up architecture. This is where hyperscale goes, capacity machines, what people call scale out architecture. Are we okay? All right, here's where data science goes. Data science goes right here. These are tough problems to solve. Engineers love problems here. Engineers love problems here. These ones are hard. Because it's not quite this or that. It's not quite this way. And the reason why it's not quite this way that is because in the case of data science, notice the amount of data is gigantic. And if you want to train a network or you want to data analytics on it, you do computation for days. Those are characteristics of a supercomputer. A few people using a large cluster for days, otherwise known as a supercooking. On the other hand, on the other hand, data scientists is in the millions. We don't have millions of whether simulation, experts, so we don't have millions of molecular dynamics. Scientists, we have millions of data scientists. And so all of a sudden, the concurrency of data science is both large and the computation requirement is also large. Of course, not everybody is the same way. And so we need to have multiple architectures to solve this. This is where DGX goes. We created DGX, which basically takes the supercomputer and we turned it into an appliance. We integrated everything, lots of GPUs, it's the scale up architecture, 16 Volta, 16100, two pedoprops of computing, half a terabyte of high speed memory, essentially 16 terabytes per second of aggregated bandwidth. And we have eight millonocks and thin bands on here to get the fastest possible access to the network into storage. This is where DGX2 goes. The next step of our journey is to accelerate hyperscale. To do essentially the same as for us with DGX that we have to do it for hyperscale. The software stack is different, the architecture is different, the whole solution stack is different. The go-to market is different, everything is different about it. It took two years longer to do this than that. And you'll see in the second one. This is called scale out acceleration, when it's accelerating scale out. And we're going to address the millions of data scientists engineers to the upper to the bottom right of that center bubble. And the solution for that is this GPU we've been making called T4. T4 is the first GPU, tensor port is our second generation tensor port GPU. It's literally 70 watts, size of a candy bar. It fits into every single of the high volume, most popular data center servers in the world. It can fit in a blade, it fits in a hyperscale server, fits in an enterprise data center server. 4 T4 gives you about 260 teraplasts, Fp16. So it's a super computer essentially. And it comes with melanox or brachome even at nix. In the end, the software stack is the complexity and it basically looks like this. You noticed earlier when I was talking about inference, one container, the output through a REST API goes into another container. And it goes into another container, eventually comes back out and recognizes your speech and answers your question. Those are containers. Those are all containers on Kubernetes. What you're seeing here is distributed computing. Notice a whole bunch of users are using a server. Containers communicating with each other. Data's going back and forth. Over here, over here, a whole bunch of servers, whole clusters working together as one compute engine. It's running one job. Hadoop started it. They used it for, of course, crawling the internet between search. Hadoop is a disk in disk computation system. In disk computation system. Using this commodity off the shelf was a brilliant strategy, brilliant architecture. Basically, you could take terabytes and terabytes and terabytes, 100 terabytes of data, internet, put it into your disks, and stream it out through the disk, doing map and then reduce. Basically, Hadoop is HDFS file system. The yarn distributed scheduling system and map-reduced compute engine. That revolutionized big data. However, because most of the data is sitting in disk, the computation was slow and then spark came along. And spark came along and read everything into memory. So now, instead of small amounts of memory on all these servers, now you have big amounts of memory. And it loads everything into memory, and now it could interact on it and iterate on it in real time. First time people were able to do basically interactive, SQL searches, SQL processing in a data center. However, the story goes, eventually, Moore's law started to slow. And the data kept getting bigger and bigger and bigger. And now we have to accelerate that. And that's where Rapids came. Rapids is an effort that started about six years ago. And the industry has been working together on that. And it came in several different layers. The first layer is to completely re-engineer the memory system. The in-memory architecture is now called Apache era. The second part of it is a scheduling system called DASC. And the third, the new compute engine, the new compute engine called Rapids. And Aaron was talking about that that's integrated into work that they're doing. These three stacks, Hadoop, for disk-oriented, low-cost systems, built on top of that, spark, on top of HDFS, built another version of it, which is the GPU-accelerated version of it, called now Rapids. And you saw earlier, Rapids is seeing great success. It's going to adopt it into Microsoft Azure. It's going to adopt it into Google Cloud. It's just been used all over the place. It's just fantastic. And this is how we're going to accelerate, basically, your distributed computing capability. The one thing that you can notice about this, is that between these containers, between these containers, is a lot of traffic that's going back and forth, what the industry calls Eastern West Networking Traffic. The Eastern West Networking Traffic is going up exponentially. What the industry calls north and south, basically, Data Center to Cloud, is not growing exponentially. The reason for that is because a number of people in the world is not growing exponentially. It's growing, but not exponentially. The amount of traffic inside the art data center is going exponentially. Second, when we create these large distributed computing systems, the broadcast, the collecting, the reducing, all of that, all of that, those provenance necessary to do this, computing is causing an enormous traffic inside. So it turns out, in the future, the way you design the data center is going to change. Instead of a whole bunch of compute nodes that are connected, essentially, by networking, the networking and the compute will become one continuous computing tabling. The network is going to become really, really important. And that's one of the reasons why recently we announced that we're applying Melonox. Let me introduce the CEO of Melonox, EO Waldman, please. Ladies and gentlemen, a visionary, a giant in the industry, and pretty big guy. I think it's a big interaction. So we've been working together for some time. And we've been working on super computers for some time. In fact, I think we've been working on it for about a dozen years. You've been working on it for almost 20 years. And so we've been building super computers together. And what are the trends that you're seeing in world-pipers? Hyper-farmous computing. So I think Mike Jensen said we're seeing a great growth in data, an exponential growth. And we also are starting to see that the old program of program-centric data center is changing into data-centric data center, which basically means that data will flow and create the program. It's the past creating program using data. The data will start creating programs using the data itself. This is things we can work on. And I actually have very interesting architect solutions for the future of the data center. And so, you know, if you take a look at our journey together, we started super computing. And almost all the major super computers we worked on, you guys worked on as well. And our engineers worked close hand in hand with reason for that is because, you know, when you have all these different compute nodes working together, the synchronization of the information, the sharing of the information, it's one-barght simulation, it's very intensive. But we're seeing the same thing happening now in hyper-scale data centers. And we're seeing the same thing happening in enterprises. And what do you guys see? And what are the benefits, it's possible. Right, so I think if you look at the big hyper-scale, one of their big advantages is the compute and super-tutor they have in the data center. Or why to serve 100% because of the people who can't see it. What we help is actually connect the compute to compute and to the storage. In the most efficient way, with the lowest latency and highest scalability. This is why we risk the productivity, the efficiency of the data center significantly. Some of the things you showed here is that latest, it's one of the most important parameters in terms of then scalability and then infrastructure. That's what we do best. We have the lowest latency. We connect the planet both on your Fini band and Ethernet. We're just improving this now with 200 HDR in Fini band. There's also 200 and 400 in Ethernet that we're going to develop. And have more than just a product in the future. Yeah, so between the neck, the switch, the latency of your systems is growing incredible. The other thing that we were well ahead of us this time was the concept of CPU offload in our DNA. And we also felt the same way. Of course, we didn't call it CPU off, but we called it acceleration. But in a way, you were in a network accelerating company all along. So we found out that doing programs is great by the CPU. Then doing very tedious IO operations by the CPU is very not efficient. So we took this task with melanox to it mainly on the endpoints of the NIC and XEF Fini band. Then what we found out is we can put computing inside the switch. This is something we've done with the video sharp tool. Actually, to accelerate, we have like an AI offload machine, floating point machines inside the switch to increase the efficiency of artificial intelligence programs in the data center. So this is something we're working together. I think we have very recent results on the show on this. But we are seeing more and more offloads. We can take away from the CPU to the network and then synergize this into the whole data solution for AI. And that's our path forward. To find a way beyond the time when CPU scale is going to continue to progress now that it's slowed down. We have to take as much work load as we can and of course moving it into an accelerators one thing. But moving it into a network is important. We will exit it on that. Fantastic. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you all welcome. Incredible guy. We've got a bunch of melanox switches and NICs all over our products. And so, so, now we've created these machines. We've created these machines in these systems. And so, we've created these machines and we've created this machine in the first place. So, again, the machine is going to go into a network. So, I think we've created these machines right now. And so, now we're going to take them to market. And the market is fragmenting very quickly in the sense that the number of customers they use, data analytics and data science, these various different kinds of computers to the world. And so we have to, for each one of these markets and each one of these segments, we have to use a different go-to-market. One of the ways we're going to market, we're taking the DGX and basically these AI-Soup computing appliance stock storage and all the switching, which is really complicated and bringing it to the enterprise, we have a suite of partners that we're working really great partners, DBM, Dell EM, C, IBM, NetApp, PierceTorch, they know a ton about storage and they happen to be working already with all the people who use big data. And so partnering with them, creating essentially a pie and these pie's are fully integrated, what the industry calls essentially hyper-converged, you could take all that, you install it literally within a day. We come in, when somebody comes in, I don't come in, somebody comes in between zero, I was almost going to take credit for it but I don't think I should, it's awfully heavy. And so you bring it in, zero AI is basically an two-wilder and so really fantastic work with the Rista and Cisco on switches and melanox switches. Together this represents a large part of the hyper-converting industry and we now take these capabilities into the company. The second thing is now the larger enterprises. The DJX pie that I just mentioned comes in to the upper left hand side, upper left hand side of that bubble of data science. Now we want to take it into the bottom. Where the top in the bottom goes, the computation, the computation is three orders of magnitude apart. But yet the market size, the number of engineers, the number of data scientists, is also three orders of magnitude. Instead of 1,000, instead of 1,000, now we're talking about 1 million. Instead of thousands, we're talking about millions of people. And so we're going to need a large network of partners to be able to take these architectures, which are relatively complicated, which is only possible really today in the cloud service providers to bring it out into world's airports so that they could set it up easily and be able to run these workloads as easily as possible. We're announcing today that nearly all of the world's leading computer makers for enterprise has joined us to take this new architecture, this data science server powered by T4s, the CUDA XAI staff and all of the machine learning frameworks that I've already spoken about to take it to market. And so I want to, if I could ask you guys to congratulate them and thank you for joining our team. Let me show you what these servers look like. So just now you saw what a what a what a what a workstation can now this is a gigantic data, a gigantic data set. And this is what it looks. In the case of this data set is several hundred gigabytes large. And then it takes 35 minutes to do on a cluster of 10 servers. Okay, and on a cluster of 10 servers with one T4 inside, it's almost zero. And so basically we take it from half an hour end to end to three minutes, barely enough time to get up to get a cup of coffee. Okay, so so the in the future you will get all the data scientists in the world are going to be substantially less caffeine. You're going to get a lot more work done. Here's here's an interesting this is this is MX net training using the same distributed servers. And notice it starts to plateau. This is the problem of of distributed computing. This is the reason why scale up is better than scale out for some very large simulation jobs. Because by adding more and more servers, notice the return on that investment starts to be crying. And the reason for that is because you're spending too much time communicating. And so this is with the fastest ethernet and this is with the fastest ethernet with our DMA, the technology that I'm not invented. And now it's an interesting standard problem. So this is the reason why networking bound is so important and why networking offloads some point and why software integration of the stack is important. What I see here, what I show here here looks simple, but the amount of software that goes into making a lot of this possible is really better. Well, that's enterprise. If you want to reach a lot of people, if you want to reach a lot of people and want to reach a lot of people fast with the single largest compute engine on the planet, there's one way to do it. There's the only way to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, is the Amazon way to go. And so if I could just invite Matt Garmin, partner of ours, have been working together for years. Matt, how's it going? Have you here? Thank you. It's great to have you here. We started working together seven years ago. You put a Fermi GPU in the cloud. What were you thinking? But anyways, put a Fermi GPU in the cloud and opened it up as a GPU of the surface. Yeah, that was the first time in the engine. To be honest, when you first did it, I was kind of like, I don't know where this is going to go. A lot of people, you know, yeah, I'm enthusiastic. I'm happy. I'm happy. I'm selling any GPUs. But it was just, it was so cool to see. And then you were the first the launch voltage into the cloud. And then you were the first to launch an eight instance, HGX2 voltage into the cloud. And we've been working together since. And so it's great to have you here. You guys have been doing AI in the cloud. You've got this layer called, the service called SageMaker. And it's a fantastic tool. You know, I'm going to hand this to you. You've got a couple of slides. Can you tell the audience? Can you tell the audience? Sure. Yeah, happy to. So, and I've actually been an Amazon AWS about 13 years. Started AWS back in 2006. And over that time, you know, really our goal is to develop. And then what we've done is develop most reliable, fastest cloud for anybody out here. And really how we think about that is we want to deliver services across the world for everybody. Cute services, storage services, one data analytics services, networking services across 61 availability zones and 20 regions all around the world, particularly ML services. That's a lot of people talking here today. When you think about ML services, one of the things that's really exciting is she learning is a great fit a lot of our customers. We have four machine learning is done in AWS cloud and any and one of the reasons for that is because a lot of our customers are still trying to figure out a lot of these people here are trying to figure out how exactly do you incorporate still trying to figure out exactly what are the best ways to do it iterating on that. The cloud is a perfect fit. We have customers come, launched large clusters of P3 servers running with this. They'll run their training applications. They'll spin them up and they'll test them. They see how they go. They spin up lots of computers, lots of servers so they can get them to work done quickly. Then they shut it down. They don't pay for any of that infrastructure. They go look at their results, they iterate, they try some new algorithms, and then they go spin it up again. They're ready to do it. In fact, one of the services that we've delivered is called SageMaker. SageMaker is an end-to-end, fully managed machine learning service that makes it easy for data scientists, developers, even machine learning experts to easily and skillably launch the machine learning applications in cloud, in video and in use of technology. Now, what are some of the customers that use your stuff? Tell us tell the audience. Yeah, with AWS, NAMS on, we always start with Cussing. That's really kind of where we think about it. We have thousands, thousands of Cussing. I picked up a couple of years. I don't highlight a few of them and we have some customers who are actually the traditional HBC. We have Cussers like Western Digital use P3s, Volta's to look at a wide range of factors, material science properties, magnetic heat flows, all sorts of things really improve the quality of their describes. We've got a lot of customers that are using your stuff for sizing process. We do. They're doing all sorts. If you look at a different industry, we have cellgins, bioparmal company recently bought by this first supplier Swift. They have AI and they're looking at a bunch of different drug designs to see what's going to happen to that. They used to have a cluster on premise. We would run their application that took them two months from its complicated application. They moved to the cloud, scaled out and now they're able to do six hours. There's a couple of Bayer. It's two months, six hours. Can you say that out loud for a second? It's amazing. It's actually, yeah, yeah. And so think about not just costs that are saving, but to your point, the most precious resources that data scientists find, that ML scientists find, the iterations that they're able to make, and then many of the top technology companies here in the area from Salesforce using it, Einstein vision application. Their developers finding an image recognition for brands online. People like Airbnb making it easier for their hosts to figure out how much they should charge property. Or even Lyft, Lyft recently announced that they're all in on AWS. Everything that they're running is all on AWS, 50,000,000,000 riders per month. And they use AL or AI and ML running on P3s and both is together with SageMaker to calculate everything, estimating fares, better drop-off, pick up things, broad detection. Wow. It's just a couple of examples. That's just amazing. And one of the things is all kind of training applications. Many of them. And my favorite app, yeah. It's actually working great. That's incredible. Yeah. And many of us love the future. Where does it go from here? Yeah. So these were many of these customers doing their big, huge training sets, top AWS, happy to announce that many of them are also doing, as you mentioned, through that pipeline we had up here earlier. They do their training, but they also then spread out inference. Many of the customers tell us that actually 80 to 90% of the cost of machine learning at scale ends up being, yeah, this is the big point. So super excited to announce this today. A new instance coming out in AWS, coming soon, the G4 instance. It'll be featuring Nvidia T4 processors and really designed for me to learn learning. It's really designed to help our customers really shrink the time that it takes to do inference at the edge with that response time really matter matters, but also really to produce the cost they have for our viewer notice. In addition to machine learning, this is a really great fit. You can also do graphics process. We're really excited. Many customers are excited to do that as well. We have customers that are looking to do high-end video workstations in the cloud. We have customers that are looking to do, can trans-coding and media processing, as well as video game streaming. All of that via the cloud. I've got two great stacks for you. One's called G4s now. The other one's called omnivores. Awesome. Yeah. So you go build it one bunch of cloud changes. Well, nothing got me more excited. We said 61 countries. That's right. 61 availability. But we're getting 61 countries. So we're super excited. Thank you. Hope you have a good show and thank you for inviting us. Thank you Matt. Thanks for the partnership. Yeah, appreciate it. Thank you. Matt Garmin, Amazon AWS, the largest computer on the planet. All right. Chapter three robotics. Here we're going to talk about robotics. The first part of robotics is Jetson. We created this little tiny computer called Jetson and we put it out. It's based on Linux. It runs the entire Nvidia Suda X stack. The amazing thing is there are 200,000 developers across 2,000 companies building things everywhere. Warehouse logistics robots, little delivery robots, agriculture robots, John Deere, for example, retail robots and assistance industrial robots, robots, everyone. Augmenty, our capability, doing things that are hard for us to do. And this area is just rich with research. This is of course the ultimate AI. Today we're announcing a brand new robotics computer. A brand new robotics computer. We're so proud of this. It is the smallest computer our company has ever built. It's called Jetson Nan. I have one here. I've been wearing it all day. I'm going to put it on the ground. Well, you don't get it? It took me days to get it. They kept putting the slide in front of me. I get it's not quite right. It's not quite right. His head's too big. Turns out it was my head. It's a terrible joke, you guys. Ladies and gentlemen, Jetson Nan. Here's the amazing thing about this little thing. It's $99. The whole computer. And it's like, if you use Raspberry Pi, and you just don't have enough computer performance, then you get here, someone needs it. And it runs the entire CUDA X-Tack. It runs computer vision. It runs speech recognition. Because it's architecturally compatible. Our company is that way. And so you've got rich software and all the AI's that you've created that runs on DJX's. When you compile it again, it runs on this. We care so much about the robotics industry. We decided to create a whole set of tools for the robot robotics to foster the robotics ecosystem. And so today we're opening several things. First is the Isaac robot engine. Basically the entire stack that's available on top of it to create robots. It creates three different robots. The Kaya robot, the Carter robot, and Link robot. And one of them could use little Jetson Nan. No, you don't want me to use it. Xavier. We also created a robotics simulator so that the robots could learn how to be robots. It's a scientific-sports reality environment. And it's got to look like real to the robot. So that when the robot is done, we take the artificial intelligence brain, we put it into the real physical robot. It sees the world, it perceives the world in the same way. The robotics loop basically has three things. And go on, talk about it. It's all everybody talked about it. It's exactly the same way. However, you think about it. One, perception. Two, reasoning and three planning. Perception reasoning and planning. Perception reasoning and planning. These robots are doing that. The internet services, the AI chat, conversational agents are doing that. The machine learning prediction systems are basically doing that. You're perceiving all the data. You're reasoning about what to do. And you take action. You take action. You make a recommendation. Or otherwise know in the world of physical worlds called planning. And so we would let the robot learn how to proceed the world. So the world has to look right. It has reason about what to do based on what it's asked to do. And then it has the planning of the motion, the articulation of it into the world. We also wanted to learn the machine learning algorithm, the AI algorithm by itself. Because some of these programs just impossible to write. How do you look at something? Go and pick it up. And object is changing in shape sometimes. It's different shapes all the time. It's different position all the time. So the program is not exactly the same every single time. But you would like to have an agent and AI algorithm that goes and picks it up by itself. And so we create a gym where it could learn through reinforcement learning how to be a robot. We put all these things together and hopefully the ecosystem in the community can use this platform to create amazing robots for future. You can go to developer.invidia.com, iZac SDK. And it's open. And I feel pretty used it. Give us feedback. Let me show you. I saw it. Here we go. And there's these reference robots. Just kind of, you know, here come just. Yeah. Stay put. Set. All right. So this is kaya. And this has a jetson in it. And it's got rich sensors. In this case, depth camera in the larger computers, the larger robots has lidar. And so they have wonderful sensors. And we can support very high resolution sensors. And so if you wanted to make a little toy, you could. But if you wanted to make something that's actually real and you do real work, you can and they can be wonderful robots. And the whole stack from vision to speech, then all of the AI that we've been talking about this whole time is available on here in the country. Okay. So hey, good job, guys. Kaya. Okay. The guys, the guys made you a short movie. Let's take a look at it. Gentlemen, Isaac Robotics. Okay. Good job, guys. Let me talk to you about one of the most important robots all your self driving part. Everything that moves in the future will have robotics, technology inside will have some level of Thomas keep building. Our company is deep in the middle of the autonomous vehicle. But we're not building a self driving car. We're creating a system and the infrastructure and the design capability necessary for the whole industry to build a self driving car. These are basically the components of our drive initiative. We start with of course the Saturn, what we call DGX Saturn 5, our own super computer necessary for doing deep learning and training these AI's. The output of these AI's whole bunch of that are then ensemble together to compose the three layers, the three groups of algorithms, perception, localization, and path planning, perception, localization, and path planning. Some people combine localization and mapping. So perception and localization mapping and planning. These three parts of the computing AI, computing stack, robotics stack is inside drive plan. All of those algorithms are ensemble together to essentially create what we call drive AV. Constellation is our simulation platform. As an engineer, nothing is right unless you can steal it. You want to be able to simulate corner conditions. You want to simulate grayer conditions. You want to be able to regress and repeat old scenarios. This car not only does drive by itself, but it has to communicate with just as when Guhan was communicating with the cloud, there has to be visual back input. There have feedback as well as audio feedback. So drive IX is our intelligent user experience. It basically shows what is in the mind of the self driving car and it communicates with the driving computer itself, scalable from level two all the way to robot axis. We have resimulation effort that is going, I'm going to show you a video. Then ultimately we've got a drive car. We're going to drive the car until it drives by itself and it's perfectly ready for production. Then we open up the entire plan. People can use it at the computer level, at the middleware software level, or the fully integrated application level. They can take advantage of our server system for developing the AI simulation system and whatever infrastructure we create. This is an open system. The future of autonomous vehicles has to be software defined and the reason for that is because look at how far we have to go and how many different diversity of systems we have to support. It is impossible to design a specific widget for one particular car. We have to be software defined. It has to be open. You have to take advantage of the entire ecosystem and I really appreciate all the partners with your needs. Thank you. Today we're announcing our release nine. We're still a year or so away from having a production car. This is our release nine. High functioning level two gives you basic. It gives you off ramp on ramp and off ramp. Last year we showed you how we drove 50 miles without touching the steering wheel. We have some round perception so that we could have the ability to auto lane change. We've localized to all of the world's major maps. We do real-time mapping ourselves. The reason for that is because these maps cover about 80% of the world, but most of the routes that we drive ourselves, the last 20% of the world that turns out to be the most frequent models. We, our car, could map, fuse it all together and turn it into our own personal H-D-Man that we can localize to the future. We also integrate everything into an AR and VR system that I'll show you in just a second. It's really quite incredible and then we have integrated driver monitoring and voice recognition. Basically your car becomes an AI. Guys, let's show it to you. Last year I showed you guys end to end 50 miles this year. I'm showing you this is map routing. Our car is doing dynamic mapping right now. You drive the routes and then it fuses the routes together into a map. It doesn't record your driving. It's recreating the map. And now notice on the right hand side it's recreating a map. It fuses it together. Because of the routes that we drive these days, there's a lot of intersections, a lot of complicated intersections. We have to teach it what are the different contexts and where should you stop? Every intersection is a little bit different. Counting on red lights alone is not good enough, counting on signs alone is not good enough. We fuse everything together. We have the great technology. This is so great. We use radar to localize. Essentially radar turns into a light art, very coarse light art and it works even in the rain and fog at night and it supplements our camera. We simulate everything. This is a virtual reality simulator now. Automatic lane changing in a crowded environment. In this one it's a technology called safety force field applied a brake. And then it takes us home back to headquarters. Lots of intersections, lots of complicated corners. We drive it several times. We fuse it together into reconstruct our own map because the HD map of the map providers don't go here. Okay, and the interest. Thank you guys. Let me show you something that's really cool. So we do. So the first part that you guys know we do incredibly well is perception. The second part we do incredibly well is globalization. We've been building up a stack from the foundation up. Now we're going to introduce our path plan. Our path planning has several components. The first component is an ensemble of neural networks in different computer vision approaches to estimate the path that the cars should take. We call that path plan. It is really, really robust and it's fantastic. On top of that we have a prediction algorithm to predict all of our surroundings. Detective surrounding, predict this path, future path, estimate their speed. That action perceiving the surroundings and predicting their future is important to safe driving. And the reason for that is this you want to be able to have a computation robust algorithm to predict that whatever you decide to do you will do no harm in the future. And so everybody else around you assuming that they're they're well-behaving agents that you yourself will computationally not cause any harm. So you are essential in a safe tool. We have a method, a computational method that detects the surrounding cars predict their future path. Of course, knowing our own path and computationally avoid the surrounding traffic we call it the safety force. This is the first of its kind is completely computational. It has the ability to be computationally validated. We have researchers around the world who are at safety experts looking at the algorithms. We're getting great feedback from it. It's going to be an open system so you guys can take the algorithm and you can implement it yourself and let me show you how it works. So this is basically you've now predicted that based on their trajectory which is not movie that you should apply your brakes. And this is using this algorithm you achieve what it's called automatic emergency braking automatic. This is intersection handling. We're now predicting that car is now taken to turn. This we have to apply our brakes and we did it just in time. Okay, this is intelligent steering. We're now estimating where everybody else is and because we're blocked we have to find the next closest route. Okay, so that's part of the safety force field figures out computationally that there's a lane next to us and we can use it. And this congested traffic using computational methods we detect where all of the surrounding cars are. We want to change lanes. It is okay to do so and the reason for that is because we predicted the car velocity and trajectory of the car next to us behind us and we come to the conclusion that if we change lanes we will not hit us. If it were to if we were to change our computation and we determined that it will collide with us of course we'll rear back into our own lane. Okay, so safety force field. Safety force field is computationally verified and it is simulated and that's why simulation is so vital to us. This algorithm was super proud of it. It's now it's now going to be in the open and you can read the white papers and as we progress we'll make it available to you. And so the third stage of really really great self-driving cars is the path planning algorithms and both in comfort and of course accuracy and comfort as well as in safety. Simulation is really vital. Today we're announcing that constellation is available. We've been working on constellation for some time. This architecture of image generators complicated is a bit accurate meaning the hardware it's basically a virtual car and you take the software we throw it into our data center and you essentially have a virtual car. It's like having a virtual fleet of autonomous vehicles in your data center. The workflow is in the cloud. You could program your workflow and show it to you in just a second and then you could of course stream it from the cloud. In the future instead of having thousands of AV test cars we're going to have thousands of these constellation systems. They're going to be so much more programmable. We can create conditions that we otherwise can't and we have our own system all racked up. Okay so now mark is going to show it to you. Mark? Let me show you a little bit about how we deploy our system on constellation. You're looking at drive simp which is our simulation platform. The center four screens are our simulator right left front rear view. Thank you then. Over to the left side is the perception. This is the drive AV stack taking the sensor input from the simulator and perceiving what's going on in the world and as well as lanes and the cars and everything that are in the world and giving us control information back to the simulator so the computer's driving the car. Look, monochance. Over here on the right side is what we showed driver or the human in the car so that the human is well aware that we're aware of what's happening in the car. It's accomplished. As a driver you can decide to see this augmented reality view right here or you can decide to see a virtual reality view right there and the ability to see this gives you so much confidence that the AV computer is recognizing perceiving the right things about the dude like this. Okay, mark it up fantastic. So I want to show you how we actually use this. The work will be using drive simp so if we can switch the developer view real quick over here on the right side we'll see and yet another camera at the same as this spectator camera that a developer views. We're running the simulation the entire time that we're editing this. We also have a Jupyter notebook Python interface to our drive so we can make some changes. Let's make some weather changes. Go ahead. So nighttime, go through a few of them. Fun, say, range. It's so much easier to do this in virtual reality than to do it in real life. Like we tried to we tried to hope for rain but it just does rain for months. Okay fantastic. So we've changed some environments in the world. We've actually been adding traffic as we've been playing along all this while the simulation is running all while we're running hardware in the loop. So we're talking to the actual computer in the car. The exact software that we would actually put into the car is actually running on constellation. Bit accurate exactly the same. Perfect. Yes. So let's make one more modification while we're here. All this traffic is essentially their agents. They're running a pass based upon rules but we can we can occupy the bind of one of the stages. So take it over and control it. So we grabbed one of the cars in the world. Let's let's do have a dual lane change. So I can locally modify any one of these bots of traffic. I can possess it and control it. I can set up any scenario I want. Finally, the best way to test our car is to do it all of this interactively. I really want some randomized versions of these scenarios that we just created and I want to deploy them on a whole fleet of not real cars but in this case constellation boxes in our data center. So let's do that. Let's switch to the constellation view. Here we go. We've got this case 12 versions of that exact same setup but now with randomized weather, time of day, timing of the traffic so that we can test every possible perturbation. That's awesome. Thanks a lot Mark. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, constellation. Not only can you use it for simulation, you can use it for resimulation. Watch this. This is really cool. What's actually happening here is we're taking a previous drive and we're taking the data we're pumping it into constellation. We're sitting inside inside a test car stationary outside. It's in a GTC. As far as the cars concern, it's basically running a regression. So the detection is working. The lane detections are working and it's recommended paths are all working and whenever there's any deviations from previous drives, this is how you can regression test it. Okay, good job guys. Thank you. Congratulations. I have one more thing to tell you. So it turns out that autonomous vehicles is one of the greatest challenges. Safety is a great concern. The technology is really complicated. The software that we have to develop is still quite significant and it's a computing challenge. It's an artificial intelligence challenge. It is a system integration challenge in cars. There's all kinds of challenges involved. This is really one of the world's great computational challenges. And the world's largest car company, the world's largest car company, is making a enormous endeavor in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, today we're announcing that Toyota, the world's largest car company, the largest transportation company, is partnering with us from end to end, from deep learning systems, the simulation systems, in-car computers, the collaboration with AI, ladies and gentlemen, Toyota and the TRI, advanced developments team is partnering with NVIDIA to create the future of autonomous vehicles. This is so exciting and this is how we can make a real, a real, a real difference in the future of transportation. Let me quickly now summarize. We did several things today. We talked about accelerated computing in half four, ladies and gentlemen, what does Prada's Tampa, that's right, programmable, acceleration of multiple domains with one architecture. Programmable acceleration, domain architecture, that is what accelerated computing is about, and that's how we move forward. We work across the entire acceleration step. The second thing is the future of graphics, the future of games is unquestionably race racing. You're going to hear about race racing on and on and on and on and on and on. This week turns out to be game developers conference and all they're going to be talking about is race racing. We announced several things. A server graphics in the data center, graphics in the data center, a very complicated server architecture with three stacks on it for rendering, omniverse, computer design, and three cloud gaming. On cloud gaming, we have a strat, we have a platform we call the G course now alliance partner with soft bank, LG U plus our first parties. I'm so excited that we're announcing omniverse something we've been working on quite a long time. It's just really great technology. Next, in data science, it's the new HPC as the fourth pillar of the scientific method. This is our ecosystem approach and today we're also announcing two computers, two new computers designed for the future of data sciences and for enterprises all of the world to be able to access these technology data science workstations and the data science server based on the T4 and our partnership with AWS to take this entire stack on top of the world's largest computers to the world's data scientists. Of course, our partnership and our acquisition of Mellonaut something super excited about because the future of computing extends out of the computing node and into the networking fabric and then lastly, in robotics. Jetson, the smallest little tiny computer, the cutest little thing right there. I'll just do it one more time for you guys for your enjoyment. It gets like right there. Then constellation and then our partnership. So, you have ladies and gentlemen, this is our GTC. I want to thank all of you for coming today. Have a great GTC.