SOURCE: gtc_keynote
YEAR: 2024
DOMAIN: ai_infrastructure
---
I am a visionary. Illuminating galaxies to witness the birth of stars. In sharpening our understanding of extreme weather events. I am a helper guiding the blind through the crowded world. I was thinking while running to the store and giving voice to those who cannot speak. Do not make me laugh. Love you do. I am a transformer. Harnessing gravity to store renewable power. And paving the way towards unlimited clean energy for us all. I am a trainer. Teaching robots to assist. To watch out for danger. And help save lives. I am a healer. Providing a new generation of cures. A new level of patient care. Or that I am allergic to penicillin. Is it silica to take the medications? Definitely. These antibiotics don't contain penicillin. So it's perfectly safe for you to take them. I am a navigator. Generating virtual scenarios. To let us safely explore the real world. And understand every decision. I even helped write the script. Breathe life into the words. In muchos idiomas. Y escribir la música. I am AI. Brought to life by Nvidia. Deep learning. And brilliant minds. Everywhere. Please welcome to the stage in Video Founder and CEO Jetswall. Welcome to GTC. I hope you realize this is not a concert. You have arrived at a developer's conference. There will be a lot of science described. Algorithms, computer architecture, mathematics. I sense a very heavy weight in the room all of a sudden. Almost like you were in the wrong place. No conference in the world. Is there a greater assembly of researchers from such diverse fields of science. From climate tech. To radio science is trying to figure out how to use AI to robotically control mymos for next generation's 6G radios. Robotics self-driving cars. Even artificial intelligence. Even artificial intelligence. First, I notice a sense of relief there all of a sudden. Also, this conference is represented by some amazing companies. This list, this is not the attendees. These are the presenters. And what's amazing is this. If you take away all of my friends, close friends. Michael Della sitting right there in the IT industry. All of the friends I grew up with in the industry. If you take away that list, this is what's amazing. These are the presenters of the non-IT industries using accelerated computing to solve problems that normal computers can't. It's represented in life sciences, healthcare, genomics, transportation of course, retail, logistics, manufacturing, industrial. The gamut of industries represented is truly amazing. And you're not here to attend only you're here to present to talk about your research. $100 trillion of the world's industries represented in this room today. This is absolutely amazing. There is absolutely something happening. There is something going on. The industry is being transformed, not just ours. Because the computer industry, the computer, is the single most important instrument of society today. Fundamental transformations in computing affects every industry. But how did we start? How did we get here? I made a little cartoon for you. Literally I drew this. In one page, this is Envideas Journey. It started in 1993. This might be the rest of the talk. 1993. This is our journey. We were founded in 1993. There are several important events that happen along the way. I'll just highlight a few. In 2006, CUDA, which has turned out to have been a revolutionary computing model, we thought it was a revolutionary event. It was going to be an overnight success. And almost 20 years later it happened. We saw it coming two decades later. In 2012, AlexNet, AI and CUDA, made first contact. In 2016, recognizing the importance of this computing model, we invented a brand new type of computer. We called it DGX1, 170 teraplocks in this supercomputer. Eight GPUs connected together for the very first time. I hand delivered the very first DGX1 to a startup located in San Francisco called OpenAI. DGX1 was the world's first AI supercomputer. Remember 170 teraplocks. 2017, the transformer arrived. 2022, chat GPT captured a world's imagination. People realized the importance and the capabilities of artificial intelligence. In 2023, generative AI emerged. And a new industry begins. Why? Why is a new industry? Because the software never existed before. We are now producing software using computers to write software, producing software that never existed before. It is a brand new category. It took share from nothing. It is a brand new category. And the way you produce the software is unlike anything we have ever done before. In data centers, generating tokens, producing floating point numbers at very large scale. As if in the beginning of this last industrial revolution, when people realized that you would set up factories, apply energy to it. And this invisible valuable thing called electricity came out. AC generators. And a hundred years later, 200 years later, we are now creating new types of electrons, tokens using infrastructure we call factories, AI factories, to generate this new, incredibly valuable thing called artificial intelligence. A new industry has emerged. Well, we are going to talk about many things about this new industry. We are going to talk about how we are going to do computing next. We are going to talk about the type of software that you build because of this new industry, the new software, how you would think about this new software. What about applications in this new industry? And then maybe what's next? And how can we start preparing today for what is about to come next? Well, but before I start, I want to show you the sole of Nvidia, the sole of our company, at the intersection of computer graphics, physics, and artificial intelligence, all intersecting inside a computer. In omniverse, in a virtual world simulation. Everything we are going to show you today, literally everything we are going to show you today, is a simulation, not animation. It's only beautiful because it's physics, the world is beautiful. It's only amazing because it's being animated with robotics. It's being animated with artificial intelligence. What you are about to see all day is completely generated, completely simulated in omniverse, in all of it, what you are about to enjoy is the world's first concert, where everything is homemade. Everything is homemade. You are about to watch some home videos, so sit back and enjoy yourself. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music God, I love Nvidia. Accelerated computing has reached the tipping point. General purpose computing has run out of steam. We need another way of doing computing, so that we can continue to scale, so that we can continue to drive down the cost of computing, so that we can continue to consume more and more computing while being sustainable. Accelerated computing is a dramatic speed up, over general purpose computing. And in every single industry, we engage, and I will show you many, the impact is dramatic, but in no industry is a more important than our own. The industry of using simulation tools to create products. In this industry, it is not about driving down the cost of computing. It's about driving up the scale of computing. We would like to be able to simulate the entire product that we do, completely in full fidelity, completely digitally, and essentially what we call digital tools. We would like to design it, build it, simulate it, operate it, completely digitally. In order to do that, we need to accelerate an entire industry. And today, I would like to announce that we have some partners who are joining us in this journey to accelerate their entire ecosystem, so that we can bring the world into accelerated computing. But there's a bonus. When you become accelerated, your infrastructure is coup d'-gpews. And when that happens, it's exactly the same infrastructure for a general today on. And so I'm just delighted to announce several very important partnerships. There are some of the most important companies in the world, Ansys. Does engineering simulation for what the world makes? We're partnering with them to coup to accelerate the Ansys ecosystem, to connect Ansys to the omniverse digital twin. Incredible. The thing that's really great is that the install base of video GPU accelerated systems are all over the world in every cloud, in every system, all over enterprises. And so the applications they accelerate will have a giant install base to go serve. End users will have amazing applications. And of course, system makers and CSPs will have great customer demand. Synopsis. Synopsis is, and Vides, literally first software partner. They were there in very first day of our company. Synopsis revolutionized the chip industry with high level design. And we're going to coota accelerates. We're accelerating computational lithography, one of the most important applications that nobody's ever known about. In order to make chips, we have to push lithography to limit. And Vides has created a library domain specific library that accelerates computational lithography. Incredibly. Once we can accelerate and software define all of TSMC, who is announcing today that they're going to go into production with Nvidia Cootlitha. Once it's software defined and accelerated, the next step is to apply generative AI to the future of semiconductor manufacturing, pushing geometry even further. Cadence builds the world's essential EDA and SDA tools. We also use cadence between these three companies, Ansis and Opsis and Cadence. We basically build and video. Together, we are coota accelerating cadence. They're also building a supercomputer out of Nvidia GPUs, so that their customers could do fully dynamic simulation at 100, a thousand times scale, basically a wind tunnel in real time. Cadence, millennia, a supercomputer with Nvidia GPUs inside. A software company building supercomputers. I love seeing that. Building cadence co-pilots together. Imagine a day when cadence could synopsis, Ansis, tool providers would offer you AI co-pilots, so that we have thousands and thousands of co-pilot assistants helping us design chips design systems. We're also going to connect Cadence digital twin platform to omnivores. As you can see the trend here, we're accelerating the world's CAE EPA and SDA, so that we could create our future in digital twins, and we're going to connect them all to omnivores, the fundamental operating system for future digital twins. One of the industries that benefited tremendously from scale, and you all know this one very well, large language models. Basically, after the transformer was invented, we were able to scale large language models at incredible rates, effectively doubling every six months. Now, how is it possible that by doubling every six months, that we have grown the industry, we have grown the computational requirements so far, and the reason for that is quite simply this. You double the size of the model, you double the size of your brain, you need twice as much information to go fill it. And so, every time you double your parameter account, you also have to appropriately increase your training token count. The combination of those two numbers becomes the computation scale you have to support. The latest, the state-of-the-art open AI model is approximately 1.8 trillion parameters. 1.8 trillion parameters required several trillion tokens to go train. So, a few trillion parameters on the order of, a few trillion tokens on the order of, when you multiply the two of them together, approximately 30, 40, 50 billion quadrillion floating point operations per second. Now, we just have to do some CO math right now, just hang with me. So, you have 30 billion quadrillion. A quadrillion is like a peta. And so, if you had a peta flop GPU, you would need 30 billion seconds to go compute, to go train that model. 30 billion seconds is approximately 1,000 years. Well, 1,000 years, it's worth it. I like to do it sooner, but it's worth it. It's usually my answer when most people tell me, how long is it going to take to do something for 20 years? It's worth it. But can we do it next week? And so, 1,000 years, 1,000 years, so what we need, what we need are bigger GPUs. We need much, much bigger GPUs. We recognize this early on. And we realize that the answer is to put a whole bunch of GPUs together. And of course, innovate a whole bunch of things along the way, like inventing tensor cores, advancing NV links so that we could create essentially virtually giant GPUs, and connecting them all together with amazing networks from a company called Melanox in Finaband, so that we could create these giant systems. And so, the GX1 was our first version, but it wasn't the last. We built super computers all the way, all along the way. In 2021, we had Selene, 4,500 GPUs or so. And then, in 2023, we built one of the largest AI super computers in the world. It's just come online. EOS. And as we're building these things, we're trying to help the world build these things. And in order to help the world build these things, we got to build them first. We built the chips, the systems, the networking, all of the software necessary to do this. You should see these systems. Imagine writing a piece of software that runs across the entire system, distributing the computation across thousands of GPUs, but inside are thousands of smaller GPUs. Millions of GPUs distribute work across all of that and to balance the workload so that you can get the most energy efficiency, the best computation time, keep your costs down. And so those, those fundamental innovations is what got us here. And here we are, as we see the miracle of chat GPT emerge in front of us, we also realize we have a long ways to go. We need even larger models. We're going to train it with multi-modality data, not just text on the internet, but we're going to train it on texts and images and graphs and charts. And just as we learn watching TV, and so there's going to be a whole bunch watching video, so that these models can be grounded in physics, understand that an arm doesn't go through a hole. And so these models would have common sense by watching a lot of the world's video, combined with a lot of the world's languages. They'll use things like synthetic data generation, just as you and I do. When we try to learn, we might use our imagination to simulate how it's going to end up, just as I did when I was preparing for this keynote. I was simulating it all along the way. I hope it's going to turn out as well as I had it in my head. As I was simulating how this keynote was going to turn out, somebody did say that another performer did her performance completely on a treadmill, so that she could be in shape to deliver it with full energy. I didn't do that. If I get a low wind and have about 10 minutes into this, you know what happened. And so, where were we? We're sitting here using synthetic data generation. When we use reinforcement learning, we're going to practice it in our mind. We're going to have AI working with AI training each other, just like student, teacher, debaters. All of that is going to increase the size of our model. It's going to increase the amount of data that we have, and we're going to have to build even bigger GPUs. Opera is fantastic, but we need bigger GPUs. And so, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to a very, very big GPU. Name, Dr. David Blackwell. Mathematician. Game theorists. Probability. We thought it was a perfect, perfect need. Blackwell, ladies and gentlemen, enjoy this. Blackwell is not a chip. Blackwell is the name of a platform. People think we make GPUs, and we do. But GPUs don't look the way they used to. Here's the, if you will, the heart of the Blackwell system. And this inside the company is not called Blackwell, but it's the number. And this, this is Blackwell sitting next to, oh, this is the most advanced GPU in the world in production today. This is hopper. This is hopper, this is Blackwell. It's okay, hopper. You're, you're very good. Good, good, good boy. Good girl. 208 billion transistors. And so, so you could see, I can see, there's a small line between two dives. This is the first time two dives have been abut it like this together. In such a way that the two, the two dives think it's one chip. There's 10 terabytes of data between it. 10 terabytes per second. So that these two, these two sides of the Blackwell chip have no clue inside their own. There's no memory locality issues, no cash issues. It's just one giant chip. And so, when we were told that Blackwell's ambitions were beyond the limits of physics, the engineer said, so what? And so this is what, what happened. And so this is the Blackwell chip. And it goes into two types of systems. The first one is, it's a point-fit function compatible to Hopper. And so you slide all Hopper and you push in Blackwell. That's the reason why one of the challenges of ramping is going to be so efficient. There are installations of Hopper's all over the world, and they could be, they could be, you know, the same infrastructure, same design, the power, the electricity, the thermals, the software, identical, push it right back. And so this is a Hopper version for the current HGX configuration. And this is what the second Hopper looks like this. Now this is a prototype board. And Jeanine, can I just borrow? Ladies and gentlemen, Jeanine Paul. And so this, this is the, this is a fully functioning board. And I'll just be careful here. This right here is, I don't know, $10 billion. The second one's five. It gets cheaper after that. So any customers in the audience, it's okay. But this is, this one's quite expensive. This is the bring-up board. And the way it's going to go to production is like this one here. And so you're going to take this. It has two Blackwell die, two Blackwell chips, and four Blackwell dies connected to a Grace CPU. The Grace CPU has a super fast chip to chip late. What's amazing is this computer is the first of its kind where this much computation, first of all, fits into this small of a place. Second, it's memory coherent. They feel like they're just one big happy family working on one application together. And so everything is coherent within it. Just the amount of, you know, you solve the numbers. There's a lot of terabytes of this and terabytes of that. But this is, this is a miracle. This is a, this. Let's see. What are some of the things on here? There's a MV link on top. PCI Express on the bottom. On on your. Which one is mine? But one of them, it doesn't matter. One of them is a CPU chip to chip link. It's my left or your depending on which side of. I was trying to sort that out and I just kind of. It doesn't matter. Hopefully it comes plugged in so. Okay, so this is the grace black well system. But there's more. So it turns out it turns out. All of the specs is fantastic, but we need a whole lot of new features. In order to push the limits beyond, if you will, the limits of physics. We would like to always get a lot more X factors. And so one of the things that we did was we invented another transformer engine. Another transformer engine, the second generation. It has the ability to dynamically and automatically rescale. And we cast numerical formats to a lower precision whenever we can. Remember artificial intelligence is about probability. And so you kind of have, you know, 1.7 approximately 1.7 times approximately 1.4 to be approximately something else. Does that make sense? And so, so the ability for the mathematics to retain the precision and the range necessary in that particular stage of the pipeline. Super important. And so this is, it's not just about the fact that we designed a smaller ALU. It's not quite, the world's not quite that simple. You've got to figure out when you can use that across a computation that is thousands of GPUs. It's running for weeks and weeks on weeks. And you want to make sure that the, the training job is going to converge. And so this new transformer engine, we have a fifth generation ND link. It's now twice as fast as hopper, but very importantly, it has computation in the network. And the reason for that is because when you have so many different GPUs working together, we have to share our information with each other. We have to synchronize and update each other. And every so often, we have to reduce the partial products and then re-broadcast out the partial products that some of the partial products back to everybody else. And so there's a lot of what is called all reduce and all to all and all gather. It's all part of this area of synchronization and collectives so that we can have GPUs working with each other. Having extraordinarily fast links and being able to do mathematics right in the network allows us to essentially amplify even further. So even though it's 1.8 terabytes per second, it's effectively harder than that. And so it's many times that of hopper. The likelihood of a supercomputer running for weeks on end is approximately zero. And the reason for that is because there's so many components working at the same time. The statistic, the probability of them working continuously is very low. And so we need to make sure that whenever there is a well, we checkpoint and restart as often as we can. But if we have the ability to detect a week chip or a week note early, we can retire it and maybe swap in another process. That ability to keep the utilization of the supercomputer high, especially when you just spent $2 billion building it is super important. And so we put in a RAS engine, a reliability engine that does 100% self test, in system test of every single gate, every single bit of memory on the black wall chip and all the memory that's connected to it. It's almost as if we ship with every single chip its own advanced tester that we test our chips with. This is the first time we're doing this super excited about secure AI. Only this conference today clapped for RAS. The secure AI, obviously you've just spent hundreds of millions of dollars creating a very important AI. And the code intelligence of that AI is encoded in the parameters. You want to make sure that on the one hand you don't lose it. On the other hand, it doesn't get contaminated. And so we now have the ability to encrypt data, of course at rest, but also in transit and while it's being computed. It's all encrypted. And so we now have the ability to encrypt and transmission. And when we're computing it, it is an entrusted, trusted environment, trusted engine environment. And the last thing is the compression. Moving data in and out of these nodes when the compute is so fast becomes really essential. And so we put in a high line speed compression engine and effectively moves data 20 times faster in and out of these computers. These computers are so powerful and there's such a large investment. The last thing you want to do is have an AI. And so all of these capabilities are intended to keep Blackwell fed and as busy as possible. Overall, compared to popper, it is two and a half times, two and a half times, the FP8 performance pertaining per chip. It is also, it also has this new format called FP6 so that even though the computation speed is the same, the bandwidth that's amplified because of the memory, the amount of parameters you can store in the memory is now amplifying. FP4 effectively doubles the throughput. This is vitally important for inference. One of the things that is becoming very clear is that whenever you use a computer with AI on the other side, when you're chatting with the chatbot, when you're asking it to review or make an image, remember in the back is a GPU generating tokens. Some people call it inference, but it's more appropriately generation. The way that computing has done in the past was retrieval. You would grab your phone, you would touch something, some signals that go off, basically an email goes off to some storage somewhere. There's pre-recorded content, somebody wrote a story or somebody made an image or somebody recorded a video. That pre-recorded content is then streamed back to the phone and recomposed it away based on a recommended system to present the information to you. You know that in the future, the vast majority of that content will not be retrieved. And the reason for that is because that was pre-recorded by somebody who doesn't understand the context, which is the reason why we have to retrieve so much content. If you can be working with an AI that understands the context, who you are for, what reason you're fetching this information and produces the information for you, just the way you like it. The amount of energy we save, the amount of networking bandwidth we save, the amount of waste the time we save will be tremendous. The future is generative, which is the reason why we call it generative AI. Which is the reason why this is a brand new industry. The way we compute is fundamentally different. We created a processor for the generative AI era. And one of the most important parts of it is content token generation. We call it this format is FP4. Well, that's a lot of computation. 5x, the token generation, 5x, the inference capability of hopper seems like enough. But why stop there? The answer is it's not enough and I'm going to show you why. I'm going to show you why. And so we would like to have a bigger GPU, even bigger than this one. And so we decided to scale it and notice, but first let me just tell you how we've scaled. Over the course of the last eight years, we've increased computation by 1,000 times, 8 years, 1,000 times. Remember back in the good old days of Moore's law, it was 2x, well, 5x every 10x, every 5 years. That's easier, it's easier. 10x, every 5 years, 100 times every 10 years. 100 times every 10 years, in the middle, in the heydays of the PC revolution. 100 times every 10 years. In the last eight years, we've gone 1,000 times. We have two more years to go. And so that puts it in perspective. The rate at which we're advancing computing is insane. And it's still not fast enough so we built another chip. This chip is just an incredible chip. We call it the NV link switch. It's 50 billion transistors. It's almost a size of hopper all by itself. This switch up has four NV links in it, each 1.8 terabytes per second. And it has computation in it as I mentioned. What is this chip for? If we were to build such a chip, we can have every single GPU, talk to every other GPU at full speed at the same time. That's insane. It doesn't even make sense. But if you could do that, if you can find a way to do that and build a system to do that, that's cost effective. That's cost effective. How incredible would it be that we could have all these GPUs connect over a coherent link so that they effectively are one giant GPU. One of the great inventions in order to make a cost effective is that this chip has to drive copper directly. The surrides of this chip is just a phenomenal invention so that we could do direct drive to copper. And as a result, you can build a system that looks like this. Now this system is kind of insane. This is one DGX. This is what a DGX looks like. Remember, just six years ago, it was pretty heavy, but I was able to lift it. I delivered the first DGX one to open it high. And the researchers there, the pictures on the internet. And we all autographed it. And if you come to my office, it's autographed. But you could lift it. This DGX, that DGX, by the way, was 170 Teraflops. And if you're not familiar with the numbering system, that's 0.17 pedophlops. So this is 720. The first one I delivered to open AI was 0.17. You could round it up to 0.2, we'll make any difference. But back then, it was like, wow, you know, 30 more Teraflops. And so this is now 720 pedophlops, almost an X-of-flop retreating. And the world's first one X-of-flop machine in one wrap. Just so you know, there are only a couple of two, three X-of-flops machines on the planet as we speak. And so this is an X-of-flop AI system in one single wrap. Let's take a look at the back of it. So this is what makes it possible. That's the back, that's the back, the DGX MV link spine. 130 Teravites per second goes to the back of that chassis. That is more than the aggregate bandwidth of the internet. So we could basically send everything to everybody within a second. And so we have 5,000 cables, 5,000 MV link cables in total two miles. Now this is the amazing thing. If we had to use optics, we wouldn't have to use transceivers and retimers. And those transceivers and retimers alone would have cost 20,000 watts, two kilowatts of just transceivers alone, just to drive the MV link spine. As a result, we did it completely for free over MV link switch and we were able to save the 20 kilowatts for competition. This entire rack is 120 kilowatts, so that 20 kilowatts makes a huge difference. It's liquid cool. What goes in is 25 degrees C about room temperature. What comes out is 45 degrees C about your jacuzzi. So room temperature goes in, jacuzzi comes out two liters per second. We could we could sell a peripheral. 600,000 parts. Somebody used to say, you know, you guys make GPUs and we do. But this is what a GPU looks like to me. When somebody says GPU, I see this. Two years ago when I saw a GPU was the HGX, it was 70 pounds, 35,000 parts. Our GPUs now are 600,000 parts and 3000 pounds. 3000 pounds. That's kind of like the weight of a carbon fiber Ferrari. I don't know if that's useful metric, but everybody's going, I feel it. I feel it. I get it. I get that. Now that you mentioned that, I feel it. I don't know what's 3000 pounds. Okay, so 3000 pounds ton in a half. So it's not quite an elephant. So this is what a DGX looks like. Now let's see what it looks like in operation. Okay, let's imagine. How do we put this to work and what does that mean? Well, if you were to train a GPT model, 1.8 trillion parameter model. It took about, apparently, about three to five months or so with 25,000 amperes. If we were to deal with hopper, it would probably take something like 8,000 GPUs. And it would consume 15 megawatts, 8,000 GPUs and 15 megawatts would take 90 days, about three months. And that would allow you to train something that is, you know, this groundbreaking AM model. And this is obviously not as expensive as anybody could think, but it's 8,000 GPUs. It's still a lot of money. And so 8,000 GPUs, 50 megawatts, if you were to use black welds to do this, it would only take 2000 GPUs. 2000 GPUs, same 90 days, but this is the amazing part. Only four megawatts of power. So from 15, let's write. And that's our goal. Our goal is to continuously drive down the cost and the energy. They're directly proportional to each other, the cost and energy associated with the computing so that we can continue to expand and scale up the computation that we have to do to train the next generation model. Well, this is training. Infrints for generation is vitally important going forward. But probably some half of the time that Nvidia GPUs are in cloud these days is being used for token generation. You know, they're either doing copilot this or chat, you know, chat GPT that or all these different models that are being used when you're interacting with it or generating image, generating images or generating videos, generating protein, generating chemicals. There's a bunch of generation going on. All of that is baked in the category of computing we call inference. But inference is extremely hard for large language models because these large language models have several properties, one, they're very large. And so it doesn't fit on one GPU. This is imagine imagine Excel doesn't fit on one GPU, you know, and imagine some application running on a daily basis doesn't run out doesn't fit on one computer. Like a video game doesn't fit on one computer. In fact, do and many times in the past, the hyper scale computing, many applications for many people down the same computer. And now all of a sudden, there's one inference application where you're interacting with this chatbot that chatbot requires a super computer in the back to run. And that's the future. And that is generative with these chatbots and these chatbots are trillions of tokens, trillions of parameters, and they have to generate tokens at interactive rates. Now what does that mean? Well, three tokens is about a word. You know, the space, the final frontier, these are the adventures that that's like, that's like 80 tokens. Okay, I don't know if that's useful to you. And so, you know, the art of communications is selecting good analogies. This is not going well. There he is. I don't know what he's talking about. Never seen Star Trek. And so, and so, so here we are. We're trying to generate these tokens when you're interacting with it. You're hoping that tokens come back to you as quickly as possible. And this is quickly you could read it. And so the ability for generation tokens rolling point, you have to paralyze the work of this model across many, many GPUs so that you could achieve several things. One on the one hand, you would like throughput because that throughput reduces the cost, the overall cost for token of generating. So your throughput dictates the cost of delivering the service. On the other hand, you have another interactive rate, which is another tokens per second, where it's about per user. And that has everything to do with quality of service. And so these two things, um, compete against each other. And we have to find a way to distribute work across all of these different GPUs and paralyze it in a way that allows us to achieve both. It turns out the search search space is enormous. You know, I told you there's going to be math involved. And everybody's going, oh, dear. I heard some gasp just now when I put up that slide. So this, this right here, the Y axis is tokens per second, data center throughput, the X axis is tokens per second, interactivity of the person. And notice the upper right is the best. You want interactivity to be very high. Number of tokens per second per user. You want the tokens per second of her data center to be very high. The upper upper right is terrific. However, it's very hard to do that. And in order for us to search for the best answer. Across every single one of those intersections, X Y coordinates, okay, so just look at every single X Y coordinate. All those blue dots came from some repartitioning of this often. Some optimizing solution has to go and figure out whether to use, use tensor parallel, expert parallel, pipeline parallel, or data parallel, and distribute this enormous model. Across all these different GPUs and sustain performance that you need. This exploration space would be impossible if not for the programmability of the videos GPUs. And so we could, because of CUDA, because we have such rich ecosystem, we could explore this universe and find that green roof line. It turns out that green roof line notice you got TP to EPA D.P. For means two parallel to tensor parallel tensor parallel across two GPUs, expert parallel's cross eight data parallel cross four notice on the other end you got tensor parallel cross four and expert parallel cross 16. The configuration, the distribution of that software, it's a different, different runtime that would produce these different results. And you have to go discover that roof line. Well, that's just one model. And this is just one configuration of computer. Imagine all of the models being created around the world and all the different, different configurations of systems that are going to be available. So now that you understand the basics, let's take a look at inference of blackwell compared to hopper. And this is, this is the extraordinary thing in one generation because we created a system that's designed for trillion parameter, generative AI, the inference capability of blackwell is off the charts. And in fact, it is some 30 times hopper. For large language models, for large language models like chat GPT and others like it, the blue line is hopper. And in the game, we gave you, imagine we didn't change the architecture of hopper, we just made it a bigger chip. We just used the latest, you know, greatest 10 terabyte per second. We connected the two chips together. We got this giant 200 a billion parameter chip. How would we have performed if nothing else changed? And it turns out quite wonderfully, quite wonderfully. And that's the purple line, but not as great as a king. And that's where the Fp4 tensor core, the new transformer engine and very importantly, the MD link switch. And the reason for that is because all these GPUs have to share the results, partial products, whenever they do all to all, all gather, whenever they communicate with each other. That MV link switch is communicating almost 10 times faster than what we could do in the past using the fastest networks. Okay, so blackwell is going to be just an amazing system for a generative AI. And in the future, in the future, data centers are going to be thought of, as I mentioned earlier, as an AI factory. An AI factories goal in life is to generate revenues, generate in this case intelligence in this facility, not generating electricity as an AC generators, but the last industrial revolution and this industrial revolution, the generation of intelligence. And so this ability is super, super important. The excitement of blackwell is really off the charts. When we first, when we first, you know, this year and a half ago, two years ago, I guess two years ago, when we first started to go to market with Hopper, we had to benefit of two CSPs joined us in a lunch and we were delighted. And so we had two customers. We have more now. Unbelievable excitement for blackwell. Unbelievable excitement. And there's a whole bunch of different configurations. Of course, I showed you the configurations that slide into the Hopper form factor. So that's easy to upgrade. I showed you examples that are liquid cool, that are the extreme versions of it, one entire rack that's connected by MV link system 72. Blackwell is going to be ramping to the world's AI companies, of which there are so many now doing amazing work in different modalities. The CSPs, every CSP is geared up, all the OEMs and ODMs, regional clouds, sovereign AIs and telcos all over the world are signing up to launch with blackwell. Blackwell would be the most successful product launch in our history. And so I can't wait to see that. I want to thank some partners that are joining us in this. AWS is gearing up for blackwell that they're going to build the first GPU with secure AI, they're building out a 222 extra plops system. You know, just now when we animated just now the digital twin, if you saw the all of those clusters coming down, by the way, that is not just art. That is a digital twin of what we're building. That's how big it's going to be. Besides infrastructure, we're doing a lot of things together with AWS, we're could accelerating stage maker AI, we could accelerate bedrock AI, Amazon robotics is working with us using on Nvidia omniverse and Isaac Sim, AWS health has Nvidia health integrated into it. So AWS has has really leaned into accelerated computing. Google is gearing up for blackwell, GCP already has a 100s H 100s T4s L4s, a whole fleet of the media could a GPUs they recently announced the Gemma model that runs across all of it. We're working to optimize and accelerate every aspect of GCP we're accelerating data product was for data processing, the data processing and you jacks XLA vertex AI and mojo go for robotics. So working with Google and GCP across a whole bunch of initiatives or call is gearing up for blackwell work was great partner of ours for Nvidia DJ X cloud. We're also working together to accelerate something that's really important to a lot of companies or call database. Microsoft is accelerating and Microsoft is gearing up for blackwell Microsoft and video has a wide ranging partnership where accelerating could accelerate all kinds of services when you chat obviously and AI services that are in Microsoft Azure. It's very, very likely a video is in the back doing the efforts in token generation. We built they built the largest Nvidia in thinnibans super computer basically a digital twin of ours or physical twin of ours. We're bringing the Nvidia ecosystem to Azure. Nvidia DJ X cloud to Azure Nvidia omniverse is now hosted in Azure Nvidia health cares and ads and all of it's deeply integrated and deeply connected with Microsoft fabric. The whole industry is gearing up for blackwell. This is what I'm about to show you most of the most of the scenes that you've seen so far of blackwell are the full fidelity design of blackwell. Everything in our company has a digital twin and in fact this digital twin idea is is is really spreading and it helps it helps companies build very complicated things perfectly the first time and what could be more exciting than creating a digital twin to build a computer that was built in a digital twin. And so let me show you what was trying to do. To meet the demand for Nvidia accelerated computing with strong one of our leading manufacturing partners is building digital twins of Nvidia DJ X and HGX factories using custom software developed with omniverse SDKs and APIs. For their newest factory we're starting with the digital twin to virtually integrate their multi-cat and process simulation data into a unified view. Testing and optimizing layouts of this physically accurate digital environment increased worker efficiency by 51%. During construction the omniverse digital twin was used to verify that the physical build matched digital plans. Identifying any discrepancies early has helped avoid costly change orders and the results have been impressive using a digital twin helped bring the strong factory online in half the time just two and a half months instead of five. In operation the omniverse digital twin helps with strong rapidly test new layouts to accommodate new processes or improve operations in the existing space and monitor real time operations using live IoT data from every machine on the production line. Which ultimately enabled with strong to reduce and to encycle times by 50% and defect rates by 40%. With the video AI and omniverse and videos global ecosystem of partners are building a new era of accelerated AI enabled digitalization. That's how we got that's the way it's going to be in the future where the manufacturing everything digitally first and then we'll manufacture a physical. People ask me how did it start? What got you guys so excited? What was it that you saw that caused you to put it all in on this incredible idea and it's this. Hang on a second. Guys that was going to be such a moment. That's what happens when you don't rehearse. This as you know was first contact 2012 Alex. You put a cat into this computer and it comes out and it says cat. And we said oh my god this is going to change everything. You take one million numbers you take one million numbers across three channels RGB. These numbers make no sense to anybody. You put it into this software and it compress it dimensionally reduce it. It reduces it from a million dimensions a million dimensions it turns it into three letters one vector one number. And it's generalized you could have the cat be different cats. And you could have it be the front of the cat and the back of the cat. And you look at this thing is it unbelievable. You mean any cats? Yeah any cat. And it was able to recognize all these cats and we realized how we did it systematically structurally it's scalable. How big can you make it? Well how big do you want to make it? And so we imagine that this is a completely new way of writing software. And now today as you know you can have you type in the word c-a-t. And what comes out is a cat. It went the other way. Am I right? Unbelievable. How is it possible? That's right. How is it possible? You took three letters and you generated a million pixels from it. And it made sense. Well that's the miracle. And here we are. Just literally 10 years later, 10 years later, where we recognize text. We recognize images. We recognize videos and sounds and images not only do we recognize them. We understand their meaning. We understand the meaning of the text. That's the reason why I can chat with you. It can summarize for you. It understands the text. It understood not just recognized the English. It understood the English. It doesn't just recognize the pixels. It understood pixels. And you can even condition it between two modalities. You can have language, condition, image, and generate all kinds of interesting things. Well if you can understand these things, what else can you understand that you digitized? The reason why we started with text and images is because we digitized those. But what else have we digitized? Well it turns out we digitized a lot of things, proteins and genes and brain waves. Anything you can digitize. So long as they're structured, we can probably learn some patterns from it. And if we can learn the patterns from it, we can understand this meaning. If we can understand this meaning, we might be able to generate it as well. And so therefore the generative AI revolution is here. Well what else can we generate? What else can we learn? Well one of the things that we would love to learn is we would love to learn climate. We would love to learn extreme weather. We would love to learn how we can predict future weather at regional scales at sufficiently high resolution such that we can keep people out of harm's way before harm comes. Extreme weather costs the world $150 billion. Surely more than that. It's not evenly distributed. $150 billion is concentrating in some parts of the world. And of course to some people of me. We need to adapt and we need to know what's coming. And so we're creating Earth too. A digital twin of the Earth for predicting weather and we've made an extraordinary invention called cordive. The ability to use generative AI to predict weather at extremely high risk. Let's take a look. As the Earth's climate changes, AI powered weather forecasting is allowing us to more accurately predict track severe storms like Super Typhoon Chantue which caused widespread damage in Taiwan and the surrounding region in 2021. Current AI forecast models can accurately predict the track storms but they are limited to 25 km of resolution which can miss important details. In video's cordive is a revolutionary new generative AI model trained on high resolution radar- assimilated Warfare forecast and air-refive reanalysis data. Using cordive extreme events like Chantue can be super resolved from 25 km to 2 km resolution with 1000 times speed and 3000 times the energy efficiency of conventional weather models. By combining the speed and accuracy of Nvidia's weather forecasting model forecast net and generative AI models like Cordive we can explore hundreds or even thousands of kilometer scale regional weather forecasts to provide a clear picture of the best, worst and most likely impacts of the storm. This wealth of information can help minimize loss of life and property damage. Today, cordive is optimized for Taiwan but soon generative soup something will be available as part of the Nvidia Earth 2 Infraint Service for many regions across the globe. The weather company has to trust the source of global weather prediction. We are working together to accelerate their weather simulation. In the first principle base of simulation however, there are also going to integrate Earth 2 Cordive so that they can help businesses and countries do regional high resolution weather prediction. If you have some weather prediction you'd like to know, I'd like to reach out to the weather company. We are very excited about this. Whether it's medical imaging or gene sequencing or computational chemistry, it is very likely that Nvidia is the computation behind it. We have done so much work in this area. Today we are announcing that we are going to do something really cool. Imagine all of these AI models that are being used to generate images and audio but instead of images and audio because it understood images and audio. All the digitization that we've done for genes and proteins and amino acids, that digitization capability is now passed through machine learning so that we understand the language of life. The ability to understand the language of life, of course we saw the first evidence of it with alpha fold. This is really quite an extraordinary thing. After decades of painstaking work, the world had only digitized and reconstructed using cryolectron microscopy or crystallography. These different techniques, painstaking reconstructed the protein, 200,000 of them. In just what is it less than a year or so, alpha fold has reconstructed 200 million proteins, basically every protein of every living thing that's ever been sequenced. This is completely revolutionary. Those models are incredibly hard to use for incredibly hard for people to build. We are going to build them for the researchers around the world. It won't be the only one. There will be many other models that we create. Let me show you what we are going to do with it. Virtual screening for new medicines is a computationally intractable problem. Existing techniques can only scan billions of compounds and require days of thousands of standard compute nodes to identify new drug candidates. In video bio-nemo-nims, enable a new generative screening paradigm using nims for protein structure prediction without alpha fold, molecule generation with mullmim, and docking with diphtalk. We can now generate and screen candidate molecules in a matter of minutes. Mullmim can connect to custom applications to steer the generative process, iteratively optimising for desired properties. These applications can be defined by any of my microservices or built from scratch. Here, a physics-based simulation optimises for a molecule's ability to bind to a target protein, while optimising for other favourable molecular properties in parallel. Mullmim generates high quality drug-like molecules that bind to the target and are synthesizable, translating to a higher probability of developing successful medicines faster. Bio-nemo is enabling a new paradigm in drug discovery with nims, providing on-demand microservices that can be combined to build powerful drug discovery workflows like to no-vote protein design or guided molecule generation for virtual screening. Bio-nemo nims are helping researchers and developers reinvent computational drug design. Mullmim, core diff, there's a whole bunch of other models, computer vision models, robotics models, and even of course some really, really terrific open-source language models. These models are groundbreaking, however, it's hard for companies to use. How would you use it? How would you bring it into your company and integrate it into your workflow? How would you package it up and run it? Remember earlier, I just said that inference is an extraordinary computation problem. How would you do the optimisation for each and every one of these models and put together the computing stack necessary to run that supercomputer so that you can run these models in your company? We have a great idea. We're going to invent a new way for you to receive and operate software. This software comes basically in a digital box. We call it a container and we call it the Envidia inference microservice, nim. I want you to explain to you what it is. I know it's a pre-trained model, so it's pretty clever. It is packaged and optimised to run across Envidia's install base, which is very, very large. What's inside it is incredible. You have all these pre-trained state-of-the-art open-source models. They could be open-source. They could be from one of our partners. They could be created by us like Envidia Mullmim. It is packaged up with all of its dependencies. So CUDA, the right version, CUDNN, the right version, TesserRT, LLM, distributed across the multiple GPUs, trying inference server, all completely packaged together. It's optimised, depending on whether you have a single GPU, multi-gpu or multi-node GPUs, it's optimised for that. And it's connected up with APIs that are simple to use. Think about what an AI API is. An AI API is an interface that you just talked to. And so this is a piece of software in the future that has a really simple API, and that API is called Human. And these packages, incredible bodies of software, will be optimised and packaged, and will put it on a website. And you can download it, you can take it with you, you can run it in any cloud, you can run it in your own data center, you can run it, run it in workstations of the fit, and all you have to do is come to AI.NVIDIA.com. We call it Envidia inference microservice, but inside the company we all call it NIMS. Just imagine, you know, one of some day there's going to be one of these chatbots, and these chatbots is going to just be in NIMS. And you'll assemble a whole bunch of chatbots, and that's the way software is going to be built someday. How do we build software in the future? It is unlikely that you'll write it from scratch or write a whole bunch of Python code or anything like that. It is very likely that you assemble a team of AI's. There's probably going to be a super AI that you use that takes the mission that you give it and breaks it down into an execution plan. Some of that execution plan could be handed off to another NIMS, that NIMS would maybe understand SAP. The language of SAP is ABAB, it might understand service now, and it will retrieve some information from their platforms. It might then hand that result to another NIMS, who that goes off and does some calculation on it. Maybe it's an optimization software, a combinatorial optimization algorithm. Maybe it's some basic calculation. Maybe it's pandas to do some numerical analysis on it, and then it comes back with its answer. It gets combined with everybody else's, and because it's been presented with, this is what the right answer should look like, and it knows what answers to produce, and it presents it to you. We can get a report every single day at top of the hour that has something to do with a build plan, or some forecast, or some customer alert, or some bugs database, or whatever it happens to be. We can assemble it using all these NIMS, and because these NIMS have been packaged up and ready to work on your systems, so long as you have video GPUs in your data center or in the cloud, this NIMS will work together as a team and do amazing things. We decided, this is such a great idea, we're going to go do that. In video has NIMS running all over the company, we have chatbots being created all over the place, and one of the most important chatbots, of course, is a chip designer chatbot. We might not be surprised, we care a lot about building chips. We want to build chatbots, AI co-pilots, that are co-designers with our engineers, and so this is the way we did it. We got ourselves a Lama 2, this is a 70B, and it's packaged up in NIMS, and we asked it, what is a CTL? It turns out, CTL is an internal program, and it has internal proprietary language, but it thought CTL was a combinatorial timing logic, and so it describes conventional knowledge of CTL, but that's not very useful to us. We gave it a whole bunch of new examples, this is no different than employee onboarding an employee, we say thanks for that answer, it's completely wrong, and then we present to them, this is what a CTL is. This is what a CTL is, and the CTL is a compute trace library, which makes sense. We are tracing compute cycles all the time, and it wrote the program. Is that amazing? And so the productivity of our chip designers can go up, this is what you can do with NIMS, first thing you can do with it is customize. We have a service called NIMO microservice that helps you curate the data, preparing the data so that you can teach this onboard this AI, you find TUNUM, and then you guard-rail it, you can evaluate the answer, evaluate its performance against it. And then you can also see the data that you can use to make a new approach to the data, and then you can also use the data that you can use to make a new approach to the data. And so that's called the NIMO microservice. Now the thing that's emerging here is this, there are three elements, three pillars of what we're doing. The first pillar is, of course, inventing the technology for AI models and running AI models and packaging it up for you. The second is to create tools to help you modify it. First is having the AI technology. Second is to help you modify it. And third is infrastructure for you to fine tune it, and if you like, deploy it. You can deploy it on our infrastructure called DJX Cloud, or you can deploy it on-prem, you can deploy it anywhere you like. Once you develop it, it's yours to take anywhere. And so we are effectively an AI founding. We will do for you and the industry on AI what TSNC does for us, building chips. And so we go to it with our, go to TSNC with our big ideas, they manufacture it, and we take it with us. And so exactly the same thing here, AI Foundry and the three pillars are NIMS, NIMO microservice, and DJX Cloud. The other thing that you could teach the NIMS to do is to understand your proprietary information. Remember, inside our company, the vast majority of our data is not in the cloud. It's inside our company. It's been sitting there, you know, being used all the time and, and gosh, it's basically NVIDIA's intelligence. We would like to take that data. Learn its meaning, like we learned the meaning of almost anything else that we're just talking about. Learn its meaning, and then re-index that knowledge into a new type of database called the vector database. And so you essentially take structured data or unstructured data, you learn its meaning, you encode its meaning, so now this becomes an AI database, and that AI database, in the future, once you create it, you can talk to it. And so let me give you an example of what you could do. So suppose you create, you've got a whole bunch of multi-modality data. One good example of that is PDF. So you take the PDF, you take all of your PDFs, all of your favorite, you know, the stuff that is proprietary to you, critical to your company. You can encode it just as we encode pixels of a cat, and it becomes the word cat. We can encode all of your PDF, and it turns into vectors that are now stored inside your vector database. It becomes the proprietary information of your company. And once you have that proprietary information, you can chat to it. It's a smart database. You can just chat with data. And how much more enjoyable is that? You know, for our software team, they just chat with the bugs database. How many bugs was there last night? We're making any progress. And then after you're done talking to this bugs database, we need therapy. So we have another chatbot for you. You can do it. Okay, so we call this Nemo Retriever, and the reason for that is because ultimately it's a job is to go retrieve information as quickly as possible. And you just talk to it. Hey, retrieve this information that goes, oh, brings it back to you. Do you mean this? Yeah, perfect. And so we call it the Nemo Retriever. Well, the Nemo Service helps you create all these things and we have all these different nims. We even have nims of digital humans. I'm Rachel. You're AI care manager. Okay, so we had, it's a really short clip, but there were so many videos to show you. I guess so many other demos to show you. And so I cut this one short. This is Diana. She is a digital human name. And, and you just talk to her. And she's connected in this case to Hippocratic AI's large language model for healthcare. And it's truly amazing. She is just super smart about healthcare things. You know, and so after you're done after my wife, my VP of software engineering, talks to the chatbot for bugs database, and you come over and talk to Diane. And so, so Diane is completely animated with AI. She's a digital human. There's so many companies that would like to build their sitting on gold mines. The enterprise IT industry is sitting on the gold mine. It's a gold mine because they have so much understanding of the way work is done. They have all these amazing tools that have been created over the years. And they're sitting on a lot of data. If they could take that gold mine and turn them into co pilots, these co pilots could help us do things. And so just about every IT franchise, IT platform in the world that has valuable tools that people use is sitting on a gold mine for co pilots. And they would like to build their own co pilots and their own chatbots. And so we're announcing that Nvidia AI Foundry is working with some of the world's great companies. SAP generates 87% of the world's global commerce. Basically the world runs on SAP. We run on SAP. And Nvidia and SAP are building SAP jewel co pilots using Nvidia Nemo into your cloud. A service now they run 85% of the world's Fortune 500 companies run their people and customer service operations on service now. And they're using Nvidia AI Foundry to build service now assist virtual assistance. Cohesity backs up the world's data. They're sitting on the gold mine of data hundreds of exabytes of data over 10,000 companies. Nvidia AI Foundry is working without helping them build their Gaia Generative AI agent. Snowflake is a company that stores the world's digital warehouse in the cloud and serves over three billion queries a day for 10,000 enterprise customers. Snowflake is working with a video AI Foundry to build co pilots with Nvidia Nemo and NEMO's. Net app nearly half of the files in the world are stored on prem on Net app. Nvidia AI Foundry is helping them build chatbots and co pilots like those vector databases and retrievers with Nvidia Nemo and NEMO's. And we have a great partnership with Dell. Everybody who was building these chatbots and generative AI, when you're ready to run it, you're going to need an AI factory. And nobody is better at building end-to-end systems of very large scale for the enterprise than Dell. And so anybody, any company, every company will need to build AI factories and it turns out that Michael is here and he's happy to take it with you. Ladies and gentlemen, Michael Dell. Okay, let's talk about the next wave of robots, the next wave of AI, robots, physical AI. So far, all of the AI that we've talked about is one computer. Data comes into one computer in lots of the worlds, if you will, experience in digital text form. The AI imitates us by reading a lot of the language to predict the next works. It's imitating you by studying all the patterns and all the previous examples. Of course, it has to understand context and so on and so forth. But once it understands context, it's essentially imitating you. We take all of the data, we put it into a system like DGX, we compress it into a large language model, trillions and trillions of parameters become billions and billions. Trillions of tokens becomes billions, parameters, these billions, parameters becomes your AI. Well, in order for us to go to the next wave of AI where the AI understands the physical world, we're going to need three computers. The first computer is still the same computer. It's that AI computer. Now it's going to be watching video and maybe it's a synthetic data generation. Maybe there's our human examples, just as we have human examples in text form. We're going to have human examples in articulation form and the AI will watch us, understand what is happening, and try to adapt it for themselves into the context. And because it can generalize with these foundation models, maybe these robots can also perform in the physical world a fairly general world. So I just described in very simple terms, essentially, which has happened in large language models, except the chat GPT moment where robotics may be right around the corner. And so we've been building the end-to-end systems for robotics for some time. I'm super, super proud of the word. We have the AI system, DGX. We have the lower system, which is called AGX for autonomous systems. The world's first robotics processor. When we first built this thing, what are you guys building? It's an SLC. It's one chip. It's designed to be very low power, but it's designed for high-speed sensor processing and AI. And so if you want to run transformers in a car, or you were run transformers in anything that moves, we have the perfect computer for you. It's called the Jetson. And so the DGX on top of treating the AI, the Jetson is the autonomous processor. And in the middle, we need another computer. Whereas large language models have the benefit of you providing your examples and then doing reinforcement learning human feedback. What is the reinforcement learning human feedback of a robot? Well, it's reinforcement learning physical feedback. That's how you align the robot. That's how you step down the robot knows that as it's learning these articulation capabilities and manipulation capabilities, it's going to adapt properly into the laws of physics. And so we need a simulation engine that represents the world visually for the robot so that the robot has a gym to go learn how to be a robot. We call that virtual world omniverse. And the computer that runs omniverse is called OVX. And OVX, the computer itself is hosted in the Azure Cloud. Okay. And so basically we built these three things, these three systems. On top of it, we have algorithms for every single one. Now, I'm going to show you one super example of how AI and omniverse are going to work together. The example I'm going to show you is kind of insane, but it's going to be very, very close to tomorrow. It's a robotics building. This robotics building is called the warehouse inside the robotics building are going to be some autonomous systems. Some of the autonomous systems are going to be called humans. And some of the autonomous systems are going to be called pork whips. And these autonomous systems are going to interact with each other of course, autonomously. And it's going to be overlooked upon by this warehouse to keep everybody out of harm's way. The warehouse is essentially an air traffic controller. And whenever it sees something happening, it will redirect traffic and give new waypoints, just new waypoints to the robots and the people, no, no exactly what to do. This warehouse, this building, you can also talk to. Of course you could talk to it. Hey, you know, SAP Center, how are you feeling today? For example, and so you could ask the same, the warehouse, the same questions. Basically the system I just described will have omnibers cloud that's hosting the virtual simulation. And AI running on DGX cloud and all of this is running in real time. Let's take a look. The future of heavy industries starts as a digital twin. The AI agents helping robots, workers and infrastructure navigate unpredictable events in complex industrial spaces, movie built and evaluated first in sophisticated digital twins. This omnibers digital twin of a 100,000 square foot warehouse is operating as a simulation environment that integrates digital workers, AMRs running the video Isaac Perceptor stack, centralized activity maps of the entire warehouse from 100 simulated ceiling mount camera, Susie, Nvidia, Travellers, and AMR route planning with Nvidia Cua. Software in loop testing of AI agents in this physically accurate simulated environment enables us to evaluate and refine how the system adapts to real world unpredictability. Here, an incident occurs along this AMR's client route, blocking its path as it moves to pick up the power. Nvidia Metropolis updates and sends a real time occupancy map to Cua, where a new optimal route is calculated. The AMR is enabled to see around corners and improve its mission efficiency. With generative AI powered Metropolis vision foundation models, operators can even ask questions using natural link control. The visual model understands nuance activity and can offer immediate insights to improve operations. All of the sensor data is created in simulation and passed to the real time AI running as Nvidia inference microservices or NEMS. And when the AI is ready to be deployed in the physical twin, the real warehouse, we connect Travellers and Isaac NEMS to real sensors with the ability for continuous improvement of both the digital twin and the AI models. Is that incredible? And so, remember, remember a future facility warehouse factory building will be software defined. And so the software is running, how else would you test the software? So you test the software, the building, the warehouse, the optimization system in the digital twin. What about all the robots? All of those robots you are seeing just now. They are all running their own autonomous robotic staff. And so the way you integrate software in the future, CISD in the future for robotic systems is with digital twins. We've made omniverse a lot easier to access. We're going to create basically omniverse cloud APIs for simple API in the channel and you can connect your application to it. So this is going to be as wonderfully, beautifully simple in the future that omniverse is going to be. And with these APIs, you're going to have these magical digital twin capability. We also have turned omniverse into an AI and integrated it with the ability to chat USD, the language of our language is human and omniverse is language, it turns out is universal scene description. And so that language is rather complex and so we've tied our omniverse that language. And so you can speak to it in English and it will directly generate USD. And we'll talk back in USD but converse back to you in English. You could also look for information in this world semantically. Instead of the world being encoded semantically in language now, it's encoded semantically in CISD. And so you could ask it certain objects or certain conditions, certain scenarios, and it can go and find that scenario for you. It also can collaborate with you in generation. You could design somethings in 3D, it could simulate somethings in 3D, or you could use AI to generate something in 3D. Let's take a look at how this is all going to work. We have a great partnership with Siemens. Siemens is the world's largest industrial engineering and operations platform. You've seen now so many different companies in the industrial space. Heavy industries is one of the great final frontiers of IT. And we finally now have the necessary technology to go and make a real impact. Siemens is building the industrial metaverse. And today we're announcing that Siemens is connecting their crown jewel accelerator to Nvidia Omnipro. Let's take a look. Siemens technology is transformed every day for everyone. Teams and Axe are leading product life-siting management software from Siemens Accelerator Platform. It's used every day by our customers. It's developed and delivered products at SK. Now we are bringing the real-rated products even closer by integrating in VDI AI and Omnipro's technologies into Teams and Settings. Omnipro's APIs enabled data interoperability and fisc-based rendering to industrial scale design and manufacturing projects. Our customers, H. Yunday, market leader and sustainable shipping manufacturing, built ammonia and hydrogen power chips, often comprising of a 7 million discrete parts. Omnipro's APIs, Teams and Axe, let's companies like H. Yunday unify and visualize these massive engineering data sets interactively. And integrate General VDI to generate 3D objects or H. Y. background to see their projects in context. The result, an ultra-intuitive photoreal, physics-based digital twin that eliminates waste and errors, delivering huge savings in cost and time. And we are building this for collaboration with our across-small Siemens Accelerator tools like Siemens Enix or Star CCM Plus or the cost-teams working on their favorite devices in the same scene together. This is just the beginning. Working with the video, we will bring absolute computing, genoidive AI and Omnipro's integration across Siemens Accelerator. Perfect. The professional voice actor happens to be a good friend of mine, Roland Bush, who happens to be the CEO of Siemens. Once you get Omnipro's connected into your workflow, your ecosystem, from the beginning of your design to engineering to manufacturing planning, all the way to digital twin operations, once you connect everything together, it's insane how much productivity you can get and it's just really, really wonderful. All of a sudden, everybody is operating on the same ground truth. You don't have to exchange data and convert data, make mistakes, everybody is working on the same ground truth. From the design department to the architecture department, all the way to the engineering and even the market department. Let's take a look at how Nissan has integrated Omnipro's into their workflow. And it's all because it's connected by all these wonderful tools and these developers are working to take a look. Come on. I like the color of the color. Very good choice. That was not an animation. That was Omnipro's. Today we're announcing that Omnipro's cloud streams to the Vision Pro. And it is very, very strange that you walk around virtual doors when I was getting out of that car and everybody doesn't. It is really, really quite amazing. Vision Pro connected to Omnipro's, four doors you into Omnipro's. And because all of these CAD tools and all these different design tools are now integrated and connected to Omnipro's, you can have this type of workflow, really incredible. Let's talk about robotics. Everything that moves will be robotic. There's no question about that. It's safer, it's more convenient. And one of the largest industries is going to be an automotive. We build the robotics stack from top to bottom, as I was mentioned. From the computer system, but in the case of self-driving cars, including the self-driving application. At the end of this year, or at the beginning of next year, we will be shipping in Mercedes and shortly after that, JLR. And so these autonomous robotic systems are software defined. They take a lot of work to do. Has computer vision, has obviously artificial intelligence, control and planning, all kinds of very complicated technology, and takes years to refine. We're building the entire stack. However, we open up our entire stack for all of the automotive industry. This is just the way we work. The way we work in every single industry, we try to build as much of this as we can and we understand it. But then we open it up so everybody can access it. Whether you like to buy just our computer, which is the world's only full functional, safe, A-S-L-D system that can run AI. This functional, safe, A-S-L-D quality computer, or the operating system on top, or of course our data centers, which is in basically every AV company in the world. However you would like to enjoy it, we're delighted by it. Today we're announcing that BYD, the world's largest EV company, is adopting our next generation. It's called Thor. Thor is designed for transformer engines. Thor, our next generation AV computer, will be used by BYD. You probably don't know this back, that we have over a million robotics developers. We created Jetson, this robotics computer, we're so proud of it, the amount of software that goes on top of it is insane. But the reason why we can do it at all is because it's 100% good and compatible. Everything that we do, everything that we do in our company, is in service by developers. And by us being able to maintain this rich ecosystem and make it compatible with everything that you access from us, we can bring all of that incredible capability to this little tiny computer we call Jetson, a robotics computer. We also today are announcing this incredibly advanced new SDK. We call it Isaac Perceptor. Isaac Perceptor, most of the robots today are pre-programmed. They're either following rails on the ground, digital rails, or if they can follow the apotags, but in the future they're going to have perception. And the reason why you want that is so that you can easily program it. You say, I would like to go from point A and point B, and it will figure out a way to navigate this way there. So by only programming waypoints, the entire route could be adapted. The entire environment could be reprogrammed. Just as I showed you, the very beginning with the warehouse. You can't do that with pre-programmed AGVs. If those boxes fall down, they just all go up and it is right there for somebody to clear it. And so now, with the Isaac Perceptor, we have incredible state-of-the-art vision of domatry, 3D reconstruction, and in addition to 3D reconstruction, depth perception. Here's it for that, so that you can have two modalities to keep an eye on what's happening in the world. Isaac Perceptor. The most used robot today is the manipulator. Manufacturing arms, and they are also pre-programmed. The computer vision algorithms, the AI algorithms, the control and path planning algorithms that are geometry aware, incredibly computational and detestive. We have made these CUDA accelerating. We have the world's first CUDA accelerated motion planner, that is geometry aware. You put something in front of it, it comes up with a new plan and articulates around it. It has excellent perception for a pose estimation of a 3D object. Not just its pose in 2D, but its pose in 3D. So as to imagine what's around, and how best to grab it. So the foundation pose, the grip foundation, and the articulation algorithms are now available, we call it Isaac manipulator, and they also just run on the computer. We are starting to do some really great work in the next generation of robotics. The next generation of robotics will likely be a human-order robotics. We now have the necessary technology, and as I was describing earlier, the necessary technology to imagine generalized human robotics. In a way, human robotics is likely easier, and the reason for that is because we have a lot more imitation training data that we can provide the robots because we are constructed in a person in a way. It is very likely that the human-order robotics would be much more useful in our world, and it would create a world to be something that we can interact with and work well with. And the way that we set up our workstations, manufacturing, logistics, they were designed for humans, they were designed for people, and so these human-order robotics will likely be much more productive to deploy. While we are creating, just like we are doing with the others, the entire staff, starting from the top, a foundation model that learns from watching video, and how to implement human examples. It could be in video form, it could be in virtual reality form. We then created a gym for it called Isaac Reinforcement Learning Gym, which allows the human-order robot to learn how to adapt to the physical world, and then an incredible computer, the same computer that is going to go into a robotic car, this computer will run inside a human-order robot called Thor, which is designed for transformer engines. We've combined several of these into one video. This is something that you're going to really love. Take a look. It's not enough for humans to imagine. We have to invent, and explore, and push beyond what's been done. We create smarter and faster. We push it to fail, so it can learn. We teach it, then help it teach itself. We broaden its understanding, to take on new challenges, with absolute precision, and succeed. We make it precise, and move, and even reason, so it can share our world with us. This is where inspiration leads us, the next frontier. This is in video project group. A general purpose foundation found, the group model takes multimodal instructions, and past interactions as input, and produces the next action for the robot to execute. We develop Isaac Lab, a robot learning application to train group, on omniverse Isaac Sim, and we scale out with Osmo, a new computer orchestration service that coordinates workflows across DGX systems for training, and OVX systems for simulation. With these tools, we can train group, and physically-based simulation, and transfer zero shock to the real world. This group model will enable a robot to learn from a handful of human demonstrations, so it can help with everyday tasks. An emulate human movement, just by observing us. This is made possible with Inviting Technologies, that can understand humans from videos, train models and simulation, and ultimately deploy them directly to physical robots, connecting group to a large language model, and allows it to generate motions by following natural language instructions. Hi, J.O.1. Here give me a high five. Group 8, let's high five. Can you give us some cool moves? Dirt, check this out. All this incredible intelligence is powered by the new JetSync door robotics chips, designed for group built for the future, with Isaac Lath, Osmo, and Groot, we're providing the building blocks for the next generation of AI-powered robotics. About the same size. The sole of NVIDIA, the intersection of computer graphics, physics, artificial intelligence, it all came to bear at this moment. The name of that project, General Robotics 003. I know. Super good. Super good. Well, I think we have some special guests. Do we? Do we? Do we? Hey guys. So I understand you guys are powered by Jetsyn. They're powered by Jetsyns, little Jetsyn robotics computers inside. They learn to walk in Isaac Sim. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the orange, and this is the famous green. They are the BGX robots of Disney. Amazing Disney research. Come on, you guys. Let's wrap up. Let's go. Five things. Where are you going? I sit right here. Don't be afraid. Come here, green. Hurry up. What are you saying? No, it's not time to eat. I'll give you a snack. Let me finish up real quick. Come on, green. Hurry up. Stop wasting time. Five things. First, a new industrial revolution. Every data center should be accelerated. A trillion dollars with installed data centers will become modernized over the next several years. Second, because of the computational capability we brought to bear, a new way of doing software as emerged. Generative AI, which is going to create new infrastructure, dedicated to doing one thing and one thing only. Multi-user data centers, but AI generators. These AI generation will create incredibly valuable software. A new industrial revolution. Second, the computer of this revolution, the computer of this generation, generative AI, trillion parameters, black well, insane amounts of computers and computing. Third, I'm trying to concentrate. Good job. Third, new computer creates new types of software. New type of software should be distributed in a new way, so that it can, on the one hand, be an endpoint in the cloud in these interviews, but still allow you to take it with you. Because it is your intelligence. Your intelligence should be packaged up in a way that allows you to take it with you. We call them NIMS. And third, these NIMS are going to help you create a new type of application for the future. Not one that you wrote completely from scratch, but you're going to integrate them like teams. Create these applications. We have a fantastic capability between NIMS, the AI technology, the tools, NIMO, and the infrastructure DGX Cloud. In our AI Foundry to help you create a proprietary application, proprietary chatbots. And lastly, everything that moves in the future will be robotic. You're not going to be the only one. And these robotic systems, whether they are humanoid, AMRs, self-driving cars, forklifts, manipulating arms, they will all need one thing. Giant stadiums, warehouses, factories. There can be factories that are robotic, orchestrating factories, manufacturing lines that are robotics, building cars that are robotics. These systems all need one thing. They need a platform, a digital platform, a digital twin platform. We call that AMRs, the operating system of the robotics world. These are the five things that we talked about today. What does NVIDIA look like? What does NVIDIA look like? When we talk about GPUs, there's a very different image that I have when people ask me about GPUs. First, I see a bunch of software stacks and things like that. And second, I see this. This is what we announced to you today. This is Blackwell. This is the platform. Amazing, amazing processors, MV link switches, networking systems, and the system design is a miracle. This is Blackwell. This to me is what a GPU looks like in my mind. This is what I think is the most important thing to do. This is what I think is the most important thing to do. This is what I think is the most important thing to do. Listen, Orange, Green, I think we have one more street for everybody. What do you think? Should we? Okay, we have one more thing to show you. Roll it. Oh. This is what I think is the most important thing to do. Okay, let's try it out. Oh. Oh. Very important thing to do. I need a voice-over. Oh. Oh. Oh. Okay. Okay. Sorry. Okay. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry, sorry. Thank you, Orange. Sorry. Thanks. Sorry. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Have a great, have a great GTC. Thank you all for coming. Thank you. Thank you.