SOURCE: gtc_keynote
YEAR: 2022
DOMAIN: ai_infrastructure
---
Compute is advancing at incredible speeds. The engine propelling this rocket is accelerated computing and its fuel is AI. Today we will show you new advances in NVIDIA RTX, NVIDIA AI, and NVIDIA Omniverse. How these platforms propelled new breakthroughs in AI, new applications of AI, and the next wave of AI for science and industry. We will announce new chips that power these new applications, and for the first time, cloud services to extend the reach of NVIDIA platforms. I want to thank all the sponsors, partners, researchers, developers, and customers who join us to make this event amazing. Welcome to GTC. I want to show you something amazing. RazerX is a fully interactive simulation, built with NVIDIA Omniverse. RazerX is physically simulated. The lighting, reflections, and refractions are ray-traced. Nothing is pre-rendered and baked in. The parts and joints of the cars are individually modeled. Their physical properties affect driving dynamics. Things in the environment are not static props, but rigid body, cloth, and fluid simulations. Smoke, fire, and dust are volumetric simulations. RazerX is a simulation. Future games will not have pre-baked worlds. Future games will be simulations. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. RazerX is running on one single GP. Today we are announcing Data Lovelace, our third generation RTS. One ATA GPU powers RazerX. This generation is named after mathematician ATA Lovelace, who is often regarded as the world's first computer program. And many engineers work closely with TSMC to create the 4N process, optimized for GPUs. This process lets us integrate 76 billion transistors and over 18,000 T4s, 70% more than the ampere generation. ATA evolves all three RTX processors. First, a new streaming multi processor with 90 Teraflops, over two times the previous generation. ATA's SM includes a major new technology called Shader Execution Reorder. Which reschedules work on the fly, giving a two to three times speed up for raytrace. SCR is as big an innovation as out of order execution was for CPUs. Second, a new RT-core with twice the ray triangle intersection throughput, and two important new hardware units. A new opacity micro-map engine speeds up ray tracing of alpha test geometry by a factor of two times. And a new micro-mesh engine, which increases geometric richness without the BVH build and storage cost. And third, a new TensorFlow with the Hopper FPX transformer engine and 1.4 Peta Flops of tensor processing. Raw ray tracing horsepower is not enough to ensure high frame rates. Raytracing is notoriously hard to parallax because rays balance in every direction and intersects surfaces of various types. GPUs are highly parallel and most efficient when processing similar work at the same time. Raytracing workloads lead to different threads processing different shaders or accessing memory that is hard to coalesce or cache. Shader execution reorder. SCR improves execution efficiency by rescheduling shading workloads on the fly to better utilize the GPU resources. We're seeing up to two to three times increase in raytracing and 25% in overall game performance. Like accelerated computing, computer graphics is a full stack challenge. Raytrace requires innovation and architecture and design as well as algorithms. For example, MVs RTX G.I. uses raytracing to do real-time multi-bounce indirect lighting. RTX D.I. uses raytracing to do direct illumination from millions of lights casting shadows from all lights. RTX D.I. is used for immersive surfaces such as billboards, tv screens, neon tubes. And video real-time D.noisers is a spatial temporal denoising technique that takes an incomplete raytraced image and infers the ground truth reducing the number of rays needed. And DLSS deep learning super resolution is one of our greatest achievements. Raytracing requires insane amounts of computation. Each frame of a CGI movie takes hours to render. We want to do this in real time. And video RTX opened the world to real-time raytrace. RT cores do bbh traversal and ray triangle intersection testing which saves the SMs from spending thousands of instructions on each ray. But even with RT cores, frame rates were too low for games. We needed another breakthrough. Enter deep learning. DLSS uses a convolutional autoencoder AI model and takes the low resolution current frame and the high resolution previous frame to predict on a pixel by pixel basis a high resolution current frame. The AI model is trained to predict an ultra high resolution 16k reference image. The difference between the predicted and reference image is used to train the neural network. The process is repeated tens of thousands of times until the network can predict a high quality image. Ada introduces DLSS 3, a new AI that generates entirely new frames rather than just pixels. DLSS 3 has four components, a new optical flow accelerating, game engine motion vectors, a convolutional autoencoder AI frame generated, and our reflex super low latency pipeline. DLSS 3 processes the new frame and the prior frame to discover how the scene is changing. The optical flow accelerator provides the neural network with the direction and velocity of pixels from frame to frame. Pairs of frames from the game along with the geometry and pixel motion vectors are then fed into a neural network that generates the intermediate frames. DLSS 3 generates entirely new frames without processing the graphics pipeline. Boosting game performance by up to four times over brute force rendering. Because DLSS 3 generates a new frame without involving the game, it benefits both GPU and CPU limited games. For CPU limited games like physics heavy or large world games, DLSS 3 allows the Ada GPU to render the game at a much higher frame rate than the CPU is able to compute. DLSS 3 is one of our greatest neural rendering inventions. Here is Cyberpunk 2077 shown in all new max ray tracing mode with SCR DLSS 3. Pushing the state of the art graphics into the future takes an incredible amount of computation and a modern game like Cyberpunk. We run over 600 ray tracing calculations for every pixel just to determine the life. That's a 16 times increase from the time we first introduced real time ray trace four years ago. Yet the number of transistors we have available in the GPU to do these calculations have not increased at that rate. That's the power of RTX. We can deliver 16 times increase in four years with artificial intelligence. Some pixels are calculated. Most are predicted. Let's enjoy Microsoft Flight Simulator. Again, that is CPU limited. Because of the realistic physics in the giant worlds, it is one of the longest running franchises. This is Flight Sims 40F anniversary. With Ada and DLSS 3, Flight Simulator is silky smooth. I am thrilled to announce portal RTX. Nvidia LightSpeed Studios used Omniverse to remaster one of the most celebrated games in history. Portal was developed by Val and released in 2007. It was GDC's Game of the Year and exhibited at the Smithsonian. Portal RTX is both nostalgic and futuristic at the same time. Let's take a look. This was a triumph. I'm making a note here. Huge success. We do what we must because we can. Welcome to the aperture science computer-aided enrichment center. The CAKE and Greek counseling will be available at the conclusion of the test. The enrichment center regrets too important at this next test is impossible. What are you doing? Stop it. Portal with RTX is a mod. We did it with Omniverse. Modding is a massive culture. Everyone is creative. There are millions of modders and billions of mods are downloaded each year. In fact, nine of the ten most popular competitive games owe their existence to mods. We created an Omniverse application called RTX Remix for Game on it. Start the game and capture the game into USD which is loaded into Omniverse. Here we're using Elder Scrolls Moral WAN from Bethesda, one of the top modded games all time. Once an RTX Remix, the AI-assisted toolset has deep learning models to address textures and assets and an AI model to convert materials to have physically accurate properties. The rich Omniverse ecosystem of creative tools can then be used to enhance the game assets. When done, export the RTX Mod pack and play the game with the RTX screen. RTX Remix is incredible tech and the most advanced game mining tool ever created. Portal RTX and RTX Remix will be available shortly after 8.0 launch. RTX Neural rendering algorithms run on programmable shaders, RTX cores and Tensor cores to create amazing images. The total processing throughput of Aval is a massive lead over the Ampere generation and the performance shows. For rasterized games, Aida is up to two times faster and it's four times faster for race-traced games. Aida is incredibly energy efficient over twice the performance of the same power compared Ampere and you can really push Aida. We've overclocked Aida past three gigahertz in our labs. RTX reinvented graphics. Now Aida is paving the way for future games to be fully simulated worlds like racer X. Today we're announcing our highly anticipated Ampere Aida LoveLace GPU. The GeForce RTX 49er Ampere engineers push technologies on every front. New SM with shader execution reordering. New RT-Core with opacity micro-mount and micro-mesh engines. New Tensercore with FP8 transformer engine and a pixel processing 300 tops optical flow accelerator for DLSS-3. Overall four times more processing throughput compared to the world's raining GPU champion the 3090 Ti. 4090 is two times faster on Microsoft Flight Simulator. Three times faster on portal RTX and four times faster on racer X. The GeForce RTX 4090 the new heavyweight champion is 1599 available October 12th. The GeForce RTX 4080 comes in 16 gigabyte and 12 gigabyte versions. 4080 is three times the performance of 3080 Ti on racer X. 4080 starts at 890. The best gaming platform in the world just got better. Our 30 series starting at 329 are the best GPUs in the world serving mainstream gamers. RTX 4090 and RTX 4080 GPUs starting at 890 delivered the ultimate performance to enthusiasts. The Ada Lovelace generation advances all three RTX processors. The engines of Neural rendering. Ada is a quantum leap for gamers and paves the way for creators of fully simulated worlds like Ampere. The most powerful and most powerful and most powerful and most powerful and most powerful and most powerful and most powerful Welcome to the omnivores. The next evolution of the internet called the Metaverse will be extended with 3D. Today's internet connects websites described in HTML and viewed through a browser. The Metaverse the 3D internet connects virtual 3D worlds described in USD and viewed through a simulation. Omniverse is a platform for building and operating Metaverse applications. Omniverse is useful wherever digital and physical worlds meet. One of the most essential uses of Omniverse is robotics. The next wave of AI where AI interacts with the physical world. Omniverse is like nothing ever built. Omniverse is a real-time, large-scale 3D database. It is a shared 3D world. Omniverse is a network built on USD. It connects 3D worlds. Omniverse is a computing platform. You can write applications that run on Omniverse. These applications are like portals into the omnivores virtual world. We've written some omnivores applications like create and view collaboration, replicator for synthetic data generation, an Isaacson and driveson for digital twin simulations. We are releasing a major update to Omniverse. Support for Ada Lovelace GPUs with a giant lead in ray tracing and large-seat formats. New GAM based and diffusion model based, new or rendering tools. Omnograph is a graph execution engine to procedurally control behavior, motion and action. A major update of Omniverse physics to process kinematics of complex multi-part objects. New Cloud XR for Ada's amazing ray tracing and view. The world's first SIM-ready asset line for synthetic data generation and digital twin simulations. One of the most popular applications Omniverse is replicator. Which is used to generate synthetic data to train self-driving cars, robots and all kinds of computer vision models. New Omniverse JT connector. This is big. Siemens invented JT. The industry's standard language of product lifecycle management and the interoperability format of CAD systems like NX, CREO, CATIA and inventor. The JT connector opens the industrial and manufacturing world's Omniverse. Omniverse is an enterprise platform that is useful from the beginning of design and styling through engineering and manufacturing, marketing to operations, the entire product lifecycle. At the core of making movies or games, building cars or any consumer product, or building and operating factories and warehouses is a super complex 3D pipeline. Let's take a look at the creative and design process. Many specialized tools are used by expert designers, artists and engineers, working in different teams, organizations or geographies, passing work around. Different data formats are stored all over the company. A visual effects pipeline can use 5-7 tools. Each specializes in a certain aspect of the workflow, such as modeling, rigging, animation or simulations. DNA, an award-winning visual effects and animation studio, uses Autodesk Maya, Side Effects Houdini, Adobe Substance 3D and Foundry Nuke in their workflow. Just as the internet connects websites, Omniverse connects 3D worlds. Omniverse lets DNAGs creators bring in data from different tools in their full fidelity and collaborate interactively in a shared Omniverse world. Teams can create a custom 3D pipeline to orchestrate and manage the complex workma, using simple out-of-the-box Omniverse tools. These Omniverse capabilities are valuable to nearly every industry. And Video Racer X was created by 30 artists using 11 tools, collaborating across 12 times and done in only 3 months. The team used Omniverse to connect and collaborate and create a custom 3D pipeline to orchestrate and manage their work. The architectural design process commonly uses apps like Revit, Rhino, SketchUp, ArchiCAD and 3DSMams, KPL and award-winning architectural design plan. Connects, architects, designers and clients in Omniverse. Clients can review progress by interacting with a full fidelity and photo realistically rendered model. Auto and other physical product makers commonly use Siemens, Autodesk, Ansys and PTC tools. GM is creating a digital twin of their Michigan design studio in Omniverse, where designers, engineers and marketers can collaborate. Omniverse gives them a single source of truth that is physically simulating and faithfully rendering. Omniverse is a virtual world used to design, build and operate things in the physical world. In the future, everything made will have a digital twin used by the makers to emulate a behavior and performance of a product in the physical world. No physical product operated by software can be deployed in large numbers without testing the software on its digital twin. Let me give you some examples. Telecos will deploy millions of 5G microselts and towers over the next five years. Optimizing the placement and operations of new and existing cells and towers can save billions for the $2 trillion telecom industry. Charter, a $50 billion telecommunications provider and heavy AI, a super cool interactive data analytics platform program, are using Omniverse to create digital twins of their 4 and 5G networks at Metro and nationwide scales. Heavy AI uses Omniverse to combine multi billion point-wide R scans, satellite imagery, buildings, trees and surroundings, and their RF propagation model to simulate the performance of Charter's radio network in real time. Lows is one of the world's largest home improvement retailers with over 2,000 stores and 300,000 retail associates. Lows is using Omniverse to design, build and operate digital twins of their stores to optimize operations and enhance the shopping experience and with the amazing Magic League 2 headsets connected to Omniverse, associates can enter a mixed, physical and Omniverse world to explore new store designs. The $300 billion global railroad market helps move the world, a critical part of the global supply chain. Deutsche Bahn, the national railway company of Germany, uses Omniverse to build and operate a digital twin of 5,700 stations and 33,000 kilometers of space. Omniverse is also used to train AI monitors that can continuously monitor the railways and trains and recognize hazards and situations that can affect network operations. Deutsche Bahn expects to increase capacity efficiency of the railway and reduce its carbon footprint without building new tracks. Each of these stories are amazing. Be sure to check out their videos on the video homepage. There are many great examples of how companies use Omniverse to create digital twins of factories, logistics warehouses, automated manufacturing units and industrial plants. Let's take a look. The first thing we're going to do is to create a digital twin of 5,700 kilometers of space. We're going to create a digital twin of 5,700 kilometers of space. We're going to create a digital twin of 5,700 kilometers of space. We're going to create a digital twin of 5,700 Connections to Omniverse are growing fast. There are already 150 connectors to Omniverse. These are the tools and platforms used by the world's $100 trillion industry. These connectors open Omniverse to companies that span the largest industries. From retail, transportation, telecommunications, manufacturing, media and entertainment, consumer and luxury goods to supply chain and logistics. Here are some examples of companies who are using Omniverse to connect their teams, visualize their data in full fidelity, generate synthetic data to train AI models and simulate digital twins. Omniverse is a new computing platform and requires a new computer system. There are three elements to the Omniverse computer, RTX computers for creators, designers and engineers, OVX servers to host connections to the nucleus database and run virtual world simulations. And third, the NVIDIA GDN, portals into the Omniverse. To your Geekforce now, we've built a global GDN, a graphics delivery network that reaches 100 regions with super fast and responsive RTX graphics. Whereas a content delivery network or CDN allows internet video to be streamed efficiently. NVIDIA GDN can stream interactive graphics efficiently between NVIDIA RTX PCs and NVIDIA GPUs in the cloud and NVIDIA GDN. We can build an Omniverse computer that covers the planet. Let me show you how remand, a hypercar and advanced EV platform company uses Omniverse to connect their design, engineering and marketing pipelines to create the amazing NVIDIA. Remag designs on RTX workstations and publishes the Omniverse based car configurator application to run on NVIDIA GDN, which is then streamed to be enjoyed on anyone's. NVIDIA Omniverse Cloud is a suite of software and infrastructure as a service, design, publishing and experiencing metaverse applications from anywhere on any device. Let's see how Remag, technology pioneer of AI enabled hypercars and advanced electric solutions can enable collaborative workflows for their 3D teams and deliver advanced 3D experiences to their audiences with Omniverse Cloud. The 3D models of cars such as Remags are designed by large teams of uniquely skilled individuals, each using their own specialized tools. Here designers connect to Omniverse NVIDIA's Cloud, their shared database engine. With USD Workplace, they can aggregate full CAD fidelity datasets from their favorite tools, including Autodesk Aliess, Houdini, Adobe Substance 3D Painter and Omniverse Create. Each designer either works on their individual RTX computers or streams Omniverse apps from OVX servers in the Cloud. Once complete, Remag integrates round truth USD model into an advanced real-time 3D configurator and publishes it to be in video graphics delivery network, a planetary scale network of distributed data centers that stream high performance, low latency 3D experiences to edge devices. Today's configurators are limited by pre-rendered options that can only be shown in a single scene. With the end-to-end USD pipeline, Remag fans and consumers are configuring the actual engineering dataset, not a simplified model, in full fidelity with physically accurate materials and real-time RTX retrievers. This unlocks all possible design permutations without remag having to manually render every option as a link. Omniverse Cloud connects 3D artists, designers, and metaverse viewers at every edge of the planet and delivers the possibility to build and operate advanced 3D internet applications on any device. Today we're announcing Envidia Omniverse Cloud, an infrastructure as a service that connects Omniverse applications running in the Cloud on prem or on a device. In addition, Replicator and Farm will also be available in the Cloud. Farm is a scaling engine for a render farm. Omniverse Cloud, Replicator, and Farm containers are available on AWS today. We're also offering them as managed services, signed up today for early access. Robotics is the next wave of AI. Breakthroughs in deep learning has opened the door to creating systems that can perceive their surroundings, plan as sequence factions, and perform useful tasks in real-time every time. Everything from the way software is developed to how it runs is completely different. A new type of processor had to be created. Envidia's Xavier was the world's first robotics processor designed for deep learning. Since then, every two years we've announced a giant leap in performance. The driving force of the increased performance is the simultaneous increase in number and resolution of sensors and more sophisticated AI models needed to expand driving domains and improve safety. Safety is the number one priority of robotics and it demands diversity and redundancy in sensors and algorithms. All of that demands more processing. Last year we introduced Adlin, a 1000 tops SOC. Today we're announcing that Adlin is no more and will be replaced by Thor twice the throughput of Adlin and more than twice the delivered performance. There are three big reasons we did that. Grace, Hopper, and Ada Lovelace. The incredible transformer engine of Hopper and the fast evolution of vision transporters is too important not to include in our next robotics process. The invention of multi-instance GPU and Ada is a great opportunity to centralize the car computer, reducing hundreds of dollars in cost. And the CPU of Grace is too amazing to pass on. As all parallel processing algorithms are offloaded and accelerated by our GPU, the remaining workload tends to be single threaded limit. Grace has excellent single threaded performance. So engineers at Nvidia scrambled to create Thor. The amount of new technology in Thor is insane. Thor can be configured in multiple ways, can dedicate all of its 2000 tops and 2000 tariff lumps to an autonomous driving pipeline. Or it can be configured to use a portion for cabin AI and infotainment and a portion for driver assistance. Thor's multi-compute domain isolation lets concurrent time critical processes run without interruption. On one computer you can simultaneously run Linux, Q and X, and Android. Thor centralizes numerous computers and simultaneously offers a leap in capability while reducing cost and power. Today, parking, active safety, driver monitoring, camera mirrors, cluster, and infotainment are different computers. In the future these functions will no longer be separate computers, but will be delivered by software that runs on Thor and improves over time. Building robotic computers requires two computers. An AI factory in the data center that processes data, trains the AI, simulates the digital twin, and maps the world. And an AI computer in the car that processes the sensors to perceive the environment, stay clear of obstacles, and drive the car to a destination. And video drive is an end-to-end platform for autonomous vehicle development and deployment. Ford development drive includes replicator synthetic data generation, and video AI infrastructure, drive sim, and drive them. For deployment, drive includes the full stack driving and in cabin AI applications, the AI computer, and the Hyperion reference autonomous vehicle system. Let me show you some of the new exciting capabilities in the video drive platform. First, an AI pipeline called Neuro Reconstruction Engine that came out of a video research is now a major feature in drive sim, creating scenarios for simulation as laborious and difficult to scale. Our researchers have developed an AI pipeline that constructs a 3d scene from recorded sensor data. The 3d scene is imported into drive sim and can be augmented with human created content or AI generated content. This video to 3d geometry pipeline runs on Nvidia OVX systems and enables us to create simulation scenarios on a global scale. Let's take a look. We are supercharging drive sim with a Neuro Reconstruction Engine to enhance simulation with AI and data captured by the fleet. In a matter of minutes, the Neuro Reconstruction Engine can reconstruct a full 3d digital twin of a recorded drive from sensor data. Objects are harvested and reconstructed using AI. Large scale asset and scene libraries are created from real world drives. The reconstructed scenes and assets are loaded into omniverse and are ready to use in drive sim. Using Nvidia DriveMap we can place dynamic objects such as vehicles as well as pedestrians. Recorded data can now be turned into fully reactive and modifiable simulation environments for closed loop testing. New scenarios can be authored using synthetic harvested scenes and assets. We can generate synthetic ground truth data to train perception at works. These authored scenarios can be used for end-to-end testing. Including challenging scenarios. Nvidia drives it powered by omniverse and AI. Drive sim is essential to building our driving system from beginning to fleet operations. It's an integral part of our CI-CD, continuous integration, continuous deployment engineering process. One of the most important drives sim features is hardware and the loop, which lets us run the entire in-car software stack right there in the AI factory. The AI card computer has no idea it's actually inside a simulation and not in the car and driving on the roof. Drive sim with hardware in the loop can also simulate the inside of the car. Future cars will not just have simple dashboards, but surround displays where digital and physical design come together. Card designers, software engineers, and electronics engineers can collaborate in drive sim while running all the actual computers and software stacks. Drive sim will be their virtual design studio. Let me show it to you. We are extending Nvidia Drive sim's platform to create a digital twin of the car's interior, with full hardware and the loop support. Nvidia omniverse is the platform that brings this all together. Designers and engineers can work side by side to perfectly integrate the physical design with the digital interface before the actual car exists. Let's find a new cluster layout. Sure. Can you resize this screen? Okay, let's try this. This looks good. Drive sim built on omniverse will accelerate the development of new AI cockpit and in-vehicle infotainment systems. Plus improve usability by testing them in a digital twin of future cars. Safety is the number one priority requirements. As I mentioned, building robotic systems requires building two computers. An AI factory in the data center and an AI computer in the car. Safety architecture, design and methodologies are pervasive throughout our systems from data center to the car. Nvidia has invested 15,000 engineer years in safety systems and processes. Five million lines of code have been safely assessed. Our drive chips and platforms are designed for A-cell D operation and ISO 26262 safety. We've dedicated ourselves to an end-to-end safety approach that extends from the AI factory to the fleet. We're making excellent progress developing the drive end and autonomous driving system. Let me show you our progress. From replicators synthetic data generation to AI model advances, drive sim with hardware and loop, drive map autonomous fleet mapping, urban and highway driving in parking. Let's take a look. Hi Pavicra, you have an event at Plaza DC's or Chavez Park at 6 p.m. Would you like me to navigate there? It's please beginning drive pilot. You have arrived. Robotic computers are the newest type of computers. These are real-time systems that sense the environment, reason about their surroundings and plan actions consistent with their goals. Orrin is our second generation processor designed specifically for robotics and it is a home run. Orrin is the computing engine of autonomous vehicles and has been selected by over 40 companies building cars, trucks, robotaxies and shows. The fundamental processing pipeline for autonomous vehicles can be applied to all kinds of robotic systems. Jetson is our robotics computer with a million developers and used by some 6,000 companies, including a thousand starters. Amazon, Boeing, Canon, Microsoft, Shopify and TeraDion are among the many companies building robots with Jetson. We're working with the industry on amazing robots from pick and pack robotic arms to agriculture robots, AMR autonomous mobile robots to last mile delivery robots. Today we're announcing the Jetson Orrin Nano, a tiny robotics computer that is 80 times faster than our previous super popular Jetson Nano. Jetson Orrin Nano runs the NVIDIA Isaac Robotics staff and features the Ross2 GPU accelerated premium. There are robots that move and there are robotic systems that watch things that move. Metropolis is our Edge AI platform. It's been downloaded one million times and has more than a thousand application partners around the world. Metropolis makes sense of cameras, lidar and other IoT sensors to make warehouses, factories, retail stores and cities safer and more efficient. Orrin is also the robotics processor of our industrial grade IGX Edge AI platform that Metropolis runs on. Today we're announcing that Siemens. The world's largest industrial automation company is adopting Metropolis and Orrin IGX for their industrial Edge computing platform. Each year two million medical devices are made by 16,000 companies. In the past, medical instruments were built from bespoke sensor processing chips, dedicated to one function driven by the same breakthroughs that have enabled self-driving cars and robots. Future medical instruments will also be software-defined and powered by artificial intelligence. The same fundamental robotics pipeline of sensor processing, environment reconstruction, detection and segmentation applies to medical imaging systems. Orrin IGX is also an ideal computing platform for medical imaging and robotics. And running on Orrin IGX is Envidia Clara Holliscan, a low latency image processing platform. Clara Holliscan, like all Envidia robotics platforms, includes libraries for data processing, AI model training, simulation and the robotics application. More than 70 leading medical device companies, including Siemens' health and ears, intuitive and Olympus, startups and medical centers are developing on Clara Holliscan. Today we're announcing that active surgical, proximity and moon surgical will build their surgical robotic systems on Envidia Clara Holliscan, running on the Orrin IGX platform. There are no robots with universal skills. But building robotic systems share common methods and tools. Robotics require two computer systems, one being the AI factory for developing the robot area and the other and AI computer to operate the robot. For several fast growing application domains, we create a platform that include domain-specific libraries for data generation, AI training, simulation, mapping and the runtime step. We built one called Isaac for AMR's autonomous mobile robots. AMRs can be used to move things of warehouses, distribution centers, and factories or be autonomous cleaning, roaming security, hospitality and last-mile delivery buttons. AMRs don't need fixed pre-programmed tracks and can autonomously navigate from waypoint to waypoint, avoiding and maneuvering around obstacles. AMRs are basically self-driving cars for unstructured environments. The Isaac platform consists of useful tools that can benefit all AMR developers. Simrating asset libraries, of things are often found in warehouses and factories, replicator for synthetic data generation. Isaac said, with connectors to the Ross and other popular robotics ecosystems, Isaac Ross engine, with AI and computer vision algorithms and runtime that connects with the Ross Bridge and KuOpt, a real-time fleet, task assignment and route planning engine. KuOpt is an amazing GPU-excelerated optimization engine. It's like having a pre-quantum computer. Let's take a look at the Isaac platform in action. Making the right operational decisions for your warehouse environment is key to maximizing output while minimizing both upfront and ongoing costs. Using Nvidia KuOpt in Isaac Sim on Omniverse Cloud, you can make dynamic data-driven decisions at any point during the layout and operation of your warehouse. Isaac Sim in the cloud lets us tap into the accelerated performance of Nvidia OVX to generate thousands of environments and layouts in a fraction of the time that it would take using a single GPU system. KuOpt can then provide optimized task assignments and routing solutions informed by collision-based occupancy map that will dictate the movement of the autonomous mobile robot or AMR fleet within the warehouse. Distributed teams can access designs from any device in easily vary parameters such as budget, speed of delivery, and robustness to identify the ideal layout for their operational needs. High volumes of synthetic data generated by Isaac Replicator in the cloud are then used to train AMR's perception model. Navigation is validated with software in the loop in a true-to-life simulated environment. Once the AMRs are operating in the physical warehouse, KuOpt can re-optimize as obstructions and environmental changes are identified. Explore how you can accelerate your logistics planning and optimization workflows within Media KuOpt in Isaac Sim on the cloud today. Today we're announcing that Isaac is going to the cloud. On NGC, you can get the cloud-ready omniverse VMI virtual machine image and Isaac containers and deploy it on any public cloud. For AWS, we've gone one step further and are publishing optimized omniverse AMI and Isaac containers in the marketplace. For Rost developers using RoboMaker, you can pull the Isaac container from the marketplace and connect Isaac Sim to your Rost ecosystem and robotic simulation and scale your CI-CD pipeline. Isaac will run on many options of Nvidia GPU instances in AWS, Azure, GCP and OCI. Nvidia is dedicated to advancing science and industry with accelerated computing. The days of no work, performance scaling, are on. Unexcelerated software will no longer enjoy performance scaling without a disproportionate increase in cost. With nearly three decades of a singular focus, Nvidia is expert at accelerating software and scaling compute by a million X going well beyond more's. Accelerated computing is a full stack challenge. Demands deep understanding of the problem domain, optimizing across every layer of computing, and all three chips, CPU, GPU and GPU. Scaling across multi-GPUs and multi-nodes is a data center scale challenge and requires treating the network and storage as part of the computing panel. And developers and customers want to run software in many places. From PCs to supercomputing centers, enterprise data centers, cloud to edge. Different applications want to run in different locations and in different ways. Today, we're going to talk about accelerated computing across the staff. New chips and how they were boost performance far beyond the number of transistors, new libraries and how it accelerates critical workloads to science and industry, new domain specific frameworks to help develop conform it and easily deployable software, and new platforms to let you deploy your software securely, safely and with order of magnitude gains. The Nvidia platform now boasts three and a half million of owners. 12,000 startups are founding their companies on Nvidia. We accelerate some 3,000 apps through 550 SDKs and AI models. And collectively, the industries we serve represent some hundred trillion dollars of them. Over the past 12 months, we updated more than 100 SDKs and introduced 25 new ones. With each new update, we enhance the performance and throughput of our fleet of computers. And with each addition, we solve new challenges for developers, and extend accelerated computing into new opportunities. Omniverse Cloud, new omniverse connectors like JT, DriveSim, Isaac Ross and Isaac Sim. Sim ready assets and replicant and Clare Hollis game, open new worlds to accelerate a computer. Let me update you on a few more of our most popular and newest acceleration like us. Rapids is our open source suite of SDKs that accelerate data science and data engineering. With Rapids, developers process data frames, SQL arrays, machine learning and graph analytics, and do in minutes what used to take hours, or process 10 to 100 times the amount of data. More than a quarter of the world's top companies are using Rapids. They're over 100 integrations with popular open source and commercial software toolkits. And Rapids is the foundation of Merlin, Morpheus, KuOft, Clara, Trey, and other Nvidia SDKs. We're expanding the reach of Rapids. 10 million Python developers on Windows can now access Rapids through WSL. And Rapids now supports the ARM server-based system architecture. Apache Spark is the most popular data processing engine and is used by 80% of Fortune 500 companies. Nvidia Rapids has a plugin for Spark 3, an integration with Delta Lake and Apache Iceberg. Enterprises can transparently accelerate Spark data frame and SQL operations. AT&T is using Rapids accelerated Spark to reduce processing time for their advertising pipeline. AT&T sped a processing by 4x and reduced cost by 70%. IRS is using Rapids accelerated Spark to speed processing by 20 times while reducing cost in half. Adobe Intelligence Services platform was able to reduce cost by 2.3rd. Data processing is a giant part of CloudSpen. Tens of billions of dollars each year and billions of kilowatts of power. Nvidia Rapids accelerated Spark is now integrated into GCP data product and ready to help save millions on your data processing spending. Trident is our open source, hyperscale, inference, serving software that supports any AI model, supports GPUs, x86 and ARM CPUs, and AWS inferential and supports all major framers. Trident has been downloaded over 3 million times, an increase of 300% last year, available in all major public clouds and integrated into top MLOPS platforms. Trident is used by over 35,000 companies. AirTell, the second largest wireless provider in India, uses Trident to serve ASR and Speech Analytics for customer service. NIO, the leading premium EV car company in China, uses Trident to test their autonomous driving models against 100 terabytes of data data. GE help care has standardized on Trident for their data center and embedded systems. Microsoft uses Trident to process real-time grammar checking. Amazon uses Trident to process real-time spell checking on their sites. We introduced over 50 new features in the last year. New model orchestration to automatically load models on demand, efficiently allocating GPU and memory resources. A major new feature is large language model inference with multi-GPU and multi-note execution. Inference time is accelerated from many minutes to a second. Graph databases store objects in their relationships as nodes and edges in a graph. Whether for fraud detection, drug discovery, supply chain optimization, product recommendation, contact tracing, customer 360 journey analysis, or social media. It is all about finding patterns in relationships. The largest companies in financial services, retail, healthcare, and manufacturing have their most valuable data stored in graph data mixes. Graph sizes can easily reach trillions of nodes and edges. And now with deep learning, we can learn patterns and relationships on a giant scale and train a predictive model for their database. Nvidia now accelerates two of the most popular graph neural network frameworks, deep graph library, and PyTorch Geometric. Amazon, American Express, Entos, Life Sciences, Maitwan, and Pinterest are among the leading users of this vast growing deep learning approach. Over 80% of internet traffic is video. Increasingly, AI and computer graphics will augment them. What used to be just streaming and coded video will include image processing like real life, repost, blurring backgrounds, super resolution, AI inference, and computer graphics for augmented reality. Special effects that used to require offline processing are now going into the cloud for live video. These operations are ideal for GPUs and can tap into the Nvidia GPUs already in cloud data centers for AI inference. But we need a new cloud-native library. CBKUDA is an open source GPU accelerator library for imaging and computer vision. CBKUDA provides a set of highly performing computer vision kernels with zero copy interfaces to integrate efficiently with other libraries and deep learning frameworks. CBKUDA can accelerate the end-to-end processing throughput by over 10 times. Early access application is now online. To advance quantum computing research, the community needs a platform to design a validate the quantum hardware and algorithms. The community needs a super fast, pre-quantum computer that produces known good results. Nvidia's Ku Quantum is an SDK for quantum circuit simulation. With Ku Quantum, a 32-note DGX Pi can simulate a 40-cubus quantum computer. Ku Quantum has been adopted broadly from AWS, Google, IBM, Oracle, startups all over the world and super computing centers. AWS integrated Ku Quantum into its bracket quantum computing service. And solved 900 times speed up and three and a half times reduction in cost. Oracle is building a quantum simulation virtual machine for OCI cloud. When quantum computing arrives, it will likely be an extension of classical accelerated computer. And VDECoda is an open quantum processor agnostic platform for hybrid quantum accelerated computer. Just as accelerated computing required a decade-long reformulation of software and algorithms, quantum accelerated computing will need the same. Coda offers researchers a programming model for quantum accelerated computing that researchers can use to discover new science today. Coda running on DGX with Ku Quantum fully emulates a quantum accelerated computer. We're working with world-class quantum researchers to develop systems and new algorithms on KM. AI continues to make exponential advances with new algorithms and new frameworks to develop. The rich programmability, performance, and availability of NVIDIA makes our platform ideal for AI research. Jax has become a super popular library machine learning research. Jax has the familiarity of Python and Umpi and the ability to define and compose differentiable functions needed for machine learning. Jax has an ecosystem of 300 plus libraries, spanning natural language understanding, reinforced learning, drug discovery, neural rendering, and physics simulation. DeepMind's groundbreaking alpha-hold was down with Jax. NVIDIA engineers are hard at work with Google Research and DeepMind to optimize Jax for a major release coming in Q4. The NVIDIA AI for Jax continue will be optimized for multi-GPU and multi-node scaling. Optimized for all CSP platforms, support for Hopper's FPA transformer engine, all with an easy one-command to run. Go to NGC and sign up for NVIDIA AI for Jax. Large language models are the most important AI models to make. Based on the transformer architecture, large language models are giant and learn to understand the meaning of language from the corpus of human knowledge, without supervision, and without label data sets. Research in Transformers and Large Language models is the most vibrant in the area with over 10,000 research papers published already this year. Unlike CNNs, Transformers can learn patterns and relationships across great spans of space and time. Transformers led to the breakthroughs in natural language processing and large language models. There are several things that make large language models so remarkable. A single pre-trained model can perform multiple tasks like question answering, document summarization, text generation, translation, and even software programming. Models can be tuned with just a few examples that perform tasks for which they were never trained. Large language models follow the scaling model and their performance continues to scale as you increase the size of the model. Large language models can learn the representation of almost any complex sequences. For example, even the language chemistry and biology. Large language models are excellent few shot learners, the same pre-trained model when asked the same question in different contexts can produce a different response. With just a few examples, we can direct the model to be aware of our context and better performance tasks. There are endless possible applications for large language models. Summarize the story, report breaking news, paraphrase for different audiences, or even searching for documents. Retraining the entire large model for each task would be understandably costly. Another method called prompt learning is an effective way to direct a pre-trained large language model to perform specific tasks by training a companion model with only a few examples. Envitya Nemo LLL is a prompt learning framework. Using the large language models natural ability to fill in the blanks, we provide Nemo some examples where a few shots of learning to learn an additional token, a prompt, that when prepended to an input phrase will produce the desired output for that context. Nemo, given a small set of examples, trains a prompting code, and only the prompt embeddings are updated. The pre-trained large language models parameters are frozen during the prompt learning, which substantially reduces the cost and time of fine-tuning the language model tasks. Today, we're announcing Nemo LLM service, a cloud service that trains a large language model to perform a task from examples you provide. Nemo includes a selection of pre-trained, community-built, foundation models. The Nemo API produces the learn prompt embeddings and an optimized microservice that can be deployed on prem in any cloud for one GPU or multi-GPU multi-new. The Nemo service will make it easier for researchers, developers, and enterprises to apply these incredible large language models. Come try it. Sign up now for early access in October. We use Nemo to create the Megatron 530B cloud API. 530B is an NVIDIA managed service running on our DGX SuperPon that you can connect to your application. It has already been prompt for a few tasks, summarization, paraphrasing, and story generation. Early access starts in October. Transformers in large language model are also at the core of the digital biology revolution. Just as transformers can learn the relationships of words and sentences and understand human language, transformers can learn to read and write in the native language of biology and chemistry. Megamolbarr learn the language of chemistry. ESM1 and ProT-5 learn the language of proteins. Once the language is learned, biochemical large language models can be prompt to to generate chemicals of certain properties and proteins within a family. These generated target proteins and drug canvils can then be virtually screened. The drug discovery space is practically infinite. The combination of proteins and chemicals is unimaginable. Only about 50 drugs are approved each year, costing an average of a billion dollars to discover. Large language models give us a new tool to explore the infinite world of drug discovery, but setting up environments to train these models is hard. And processing the data and training can take weeks to months. Today we're announcing BioNemo large language model service, a digital biology framework for researchers and developers to create large language models that understand chemicals, proteins, DNA and RNA sequences. Included in the service are pre-trained ESM1, ProT-5 and Megamolbarr. The output of BioNemo can be used for downstream tasks such as generating new proteins and chemicals or predicting structure, function, or reaction properties. Early access for BioNemo is an example. The Broad is one of the top medical research institutes in the world and the largest producer of human genomic information. The Broad Institute and Nvidia are announcing today that the Nvidia Clara libraries are now available on Broad's Terra Cloud platform. With Nvidia Parabrics, old genome sequencing can be sped up from over 24 hours to just 1 hour while cutting the compute costs by more than half. Researchers using the Geno Analysis Toolkit GATK can get improved accuracy with deep learning. And the new Nvidia BioNemo will be available on Terra Cloud. Using BioNemo, Nvidia and BroG researchers are collaborating to create large language models for genomics. We're excited that Nvidia's Clara engines will turbocharge the work of Terra Clouds 25,000 plus users. Large language models have set the stage for Hopper, named after Grace Hopper, a computer scientist in the US Navy who pioneered computer programming in the 50s and first coin the term button. Hopper is the engine of large language model AI factors. One of the most amazing breakthroughs of Hopper is a new transformer engine, a new tensor core, and software that uses FP8 and FP16 numerical formats, dynamically processes layers of a transformer network, and the performance is incredible. The training time goes from days to hours for on larger models from a month to a week. And prompt tuning on models such as 530V using H100 and Nemo LLM service is five times faster than A100. And as Kirk said to Spock, hours instead of days, minutes instead of hours. H100 inference is magnitudes faster than A100 for large language models. For instance, when serving large language model chatbots with less than one second latency on equivalent scale systems, Ampere can serve 100 users while Hopper can serve more than 3,000 30 times more. Hopper will make large language models. The most important AI of our time accessible to everyone. The more you buy, the more you save. Hopper H100 is the new engine of the AI factory. H100 is available now on Nvidia Launchpad. DGX H100 systems with Nvidia base command or demonstration can be ordered. OEM partners will ship H100 systems starting next month. And all major cloud providers are making H100 available in just a few months. Hopper is a full production. Recommenders run the digital economy. They are the engines behind social media, digital advertising, e-commerce, and search. Recommenders process a gigantic amount of data compared to large language models. The amount of data moved for every unit of computation is an order of magnitude larger. Here is a chart that has compute intensity on the vertical axes and fast memory capacity on the horizontal axis. You can see that recommended systems require an order of magnitude more fast memory capacity. Large language models will continue to grow exponentially and require more computation over time. Recommender systems will also grow exponentially and will require more fast memory capacity over time. Large language models and recommender systems are the two most important AI models today and they have diverging computing requirements. Recommenders can scale to billions of users and billions of items. For example, every article, video and social media item has a learn numerical representation called embedding. Each embedding table can be tens of terabytes of data that requires multiple GPUs to process. Processing recommenders require data parallels in parts of the network and model parallels in other parts of the network, stressing every part of the computer. Grace Hopper is ideally suited for recommender systems. Whereas Hopper HGX systems are rich and tensor processing, each HGX node with 8 GPUs is limited to 640 gigabytes of fast memory. On the other hand, a single Grace Hopper Super Chip can be configured for 580 gigabytes of fast memory. 500 gigabytes connected to Grace and 80 gigabytes connected to Hopper. The two chips are connected by a super fast chip to chip and B-link. 8 Grace Hoppers have the same tensor throughput of Hopper HGX, but over 7 times more fast memory capacity. Now with just 120 node Grace Hopper system, you can process a 70 terabyte state-of-the-art recommender system. Grace Hopper will be a giant leap of recommender systems. The amazing Grace CPU is the magic behind Grace Hopper. Let me tell you about it. Grace uses the ARM Neoverse V2 CPU core that delivers high single threaded performance and twice the energy efficiency of server CPUs. 72 CPU cores are connected by a scalable coherency fabric that delivers 3.2 terabytes per second of bi-sectional bandwidth. 117 megabytes of L3 cache are distributed across the mesh fabric. Grace system memory is LPDDR5X, which delivers 1.5X the bandwidth of DDR5, but most importantly, at 1.8 the power. And finally, Grace is connected to Hopper through a chip-to-chip and B-link that gives Hopper high speed access to Grace's large memory. Grace and Grace Hopper superchips are designed for high-performance computing applications that process a giant amount of data, like data analytics and recommender systems. Envidia and the world's leading system makers are building a broad array of servers. Envidia is bringing the full stack of our HPC AI and ARM Neoverse platforms to Grace and Grace Hopper. Systems will be available in the first half of 2023. Artificial intelligence is the most important technology force of our time and is creating capabilities never before possible. In just a few years, AI has delivered breakthroughs in computer vision, speech recognition, natural language understanding, and recommender systems. These AI models still have to be built into applications by self-driving cars, customer service chatbots, and e-commerce sites, and workflows that adapt the AI's to specific use cases and help the models learn from experience. To make AI accessible to industries, we've developed domain-specific frameworks that companies can use to make AI applications. All of these application frameworks are built on a media HPC, Envidia AI, and Envidia ARM Neoverse platforms. Let me give you a few examples. Envidia Monai is the most popular medical imaging AI framework. 15 of the top 20 academic medical centers and pharmaceutical companies like Bayer and GSK have adopted Monai for radiology and technology. Envidia Merlin is a framework that helps you easily build an end-to-end recommender system that is performant and scalable. Companies including Capital One, Tense and WeChat, and Fidelity are building recommenders to improve the quality and engagement of their services. Envidia KuOct is an operations research optimization API using AI to help developers create complex real-time fleet routing. AT&T, BMW, and Dominums are using KuOct. BMW has said that using KuOct has saved 20% on their factory fleet orchestration and planning. Millions of dollars. Envidia Morpheus is a GP-excelerated SDK, enabling cybersecurity developers to build AI pipelines that detect anomalies by filtering, processing, and classifying giant volumes of real-time data. We're partnering with Booz Allen Hamilton to bring a Morpheus-powered cybersecurity platform to the public and private sectors. Artificial intelligence is impacting a large number of application domains and requires two basic approaches to computing. We're helping customers develop and deploy these AI applications in secure, multi-cloud environments, whether it's scale-up, batch processing AI factories, or scale-out interactive cloud services. For scale-up AI factories, we are in full production with hopper. For scale-out inference, interactive, metaverse applications, and omniverse simulations, we have the OVX computer. In omniverse simulation mode, one session runs on multiple GPUs. In inference and multimedia modes, multiple sessions can run on one GPU. Today, we're announcing the OVX computer with the new AIDA-LOG-LIMS L40 data center GPU. With a massive 48GB framework, OVX with 8 L40s will be able to process giant omniverse virtual world simulations. L40 OVX computers will be available from the world's leading computer makers and cloud providers. L40 GPUs are in full production. 80% of the world's internet traffic is video. User-generated content like video conferencing or short-form videos make up a lot of them. Increasingly, these video streams will be augmented by AI special effects in computer graphics. An emerging metaverse applications like avatars will do computer vision, speech AI, language understanding, and computer graphics in real-time and at cloud scale. Nothing like this has ever been done before. To make this possible, we've been building acceleration libraries like CV-Kuda, pre-trained AI models in our avatar cloud engine like Reva and Audio-to-Face, and a zero-code application framework and cloud runtime engine called UCF, Universal Computing Framework. Using UCF, we created a reference application called Toki for building customer service avatars. All of this is running on AWS. Let me show it. Interactive avatars are growing in popularity and use, from providing customer and cell support to marketing tools and teaching aids. But creating interactive avatars is very hard and typically requires expensive equipment, specific expertise, and time-consuming workflows. Video ACE is a collection of cloud-native AI microservices that make it easier to create customized and deploy intelligent and gauging avatars built on any engine and deployable on any cloud. An interactive avatar needs to understand and communicate with you. From the more common text-driven chatwats that help users with site or subject-specific queries, to real-time fully animated 3D avatars that I can see and hear you. And ACE has all the necessary AI-building blocks to bring them to life. Hi, I am Violet. How can I help you? This is Violet. She is a fully rigged avatar with some basic animation. To make her interactive, we use Nvidia's unified compute framework, for UCF Studio, to build a graph of microservices that we can deploy in the cloud. For Violet, to be able to hear her and talk to us, we include the Riva ASR and TTS components. And we use audio to face to provide the necessary animation. Each microservice component has color coded inputs and outputs, with easy connection and error check to avoid incompatible connections. We then connect a fruit ordering data set to handle customer orders and queries. Do you have any low-calorie options? I found these four options for low-calorie, market-salad, fruit-salad, diet-cola, and lemonade. I'd like a market-salad, please. Okay, I have added one regular market-salad to your cart. What else would you like? Do you have any orange juice? I cannot find orange juices, but I found a similar item. One small lemonade is... I just didn't have the lemon-sized lemon. Please ask me about items in the menu. Can I have one small french fries please? Now, let's make Violet smarter. The Tokyo application break-up comes with a customizable, pre-trained natural language processing. However, we do want Violet to be able to answer questions that don't relate to food orders. To do this, we add a pre-deployed Megatron LLN microservice, and update the inference model settings for open-domain question answering. Hello, I am Violet. Ask me anything. What do you know about the lemon-sized Nebula? The lemon-sized Nebula is a planetary Nebula located in the constellation Camelaportalus. How far is it from Earth? 4,500 light years away. Let's switch I avatar to one from another engine. For this, we'll use Unreal Engine 5 and MetaHuman to power Violet. All we need to do is go back to UCF Studio and switch the microservice output of audio to phase from one reverse to Unreal Engine. We then relaunch and now we meet Ultra Violet, and she has all the same intelligent capabilities as the previous Violet. Hi, I'm Ultra Violet. I'm a digital avatar. I've been brought to life by Avatar Cloud Engine or ACE for short. On-diverse ACE powers my speech, animation, and intelligence. I can even answer challenging questions using the power of a large language model. Ask me anything. We're really excited about On-diverse Avatar Cloud Engine, and we can't wait to see what you created. We have a rich suite of domain-specific application frameworks. Now, we need an army of experts to help customers apply these AI frameworks to automate their businesses. Today, we are announcing that Deloitte, the world's largest professional services firm, is bringing new services built on Nvidia AI and Nvidia On-diverse to the world's enterprises. Deloitte's 350,000 professionals will help the world's enterprises use Nvidia application frameworks to build modern, multi-cloud applications for customer service, cybersecurity, industrial automation, warehouse and retail automation. Deloitte is a major new addition to our ecosystem of software developers and go-to-market partners. Today, we announced new chips, new advances to our platforms, and for the very first time, new cloud services. The Ada Lovelace generation advances all three RTX processors, the engines of Neural Rendering. Ada is a quantum leap for gamers and paves the way for creators of fully simulated worlds, like racer-ets. Large language models and recommender systems are the two most important AI models today. Hopper, with its transformer engine, will make large language models accessible to everyone. Hopper is in full production and coming soon to power the world's AI factories. Recommenders run the digital economy. Grace Hopper, with seven times increase in fast memory capacity, will be a giant leap of recommender systems. Systems will be available in the first half of 2023. OVX is the omniverse computer, an ideal to scale out metaverse applications. Our second generation OVX is powered by Ada Lovelace, L40, data center GPUs. L40 is in full production. Combining the transformer engine of Hopper, the GPU of Ada, and the amazing CPU of Grace, Thor will power the centralized car computers of autonomous vehicles starting in 2025. And like Orrin, Thor will be the processor for robotics, medical instruments, industrial automation, and edge AI systems. We have more than three and a half million developers creating some 3,000 accelerated apps using our 550 SDKs and AI models. New SDKs increase the capability and performance of systems our customers already own, while opening new markets for accelerated computing. Over the past 12 months, we updated more than 100 SDKs and introduced 25 new ones. The Nemo large language model service is an Envidia managed cloud service to adapt between large language models to perform specific tasks. The Bio Nemo LLM is a service to create large language models that understands chemicals, proteins, DNA, and RNA sequences. Envidia omniverse cloud is an infrastructure as a service that connects omniverse applications running in the cloud on prem or on a device. New omniverse containers, replicator for synthetic data generation, farm for scaling render farms, and Isaac Sim for building and training AI robots are now available for child deployment. For Ross developers using AWS RoboMaker, Isaac containers are in the market. 80% of the world's internet traffic is video. And user generated video streams will be increasingly augmented by AI special effects and computer graphics. Advertires will do computer vision, speech AI, language understanding, and computer animation in real time and at cloud scale. To make this possible, we've been building acceleration libraries like CV CUDA, a cloud runtime engine called UCF unified computing framework, an omniverse ACE, avatar cloud engine, and a sample application called Token for customer service the world's largest professional services firm is bringing new services built on Nvidia AI and Nvidia omniverse to the world's enterprises. The LLLL's 350,000 professionals will help the world's enterprises use Nvidia application frameworks to build modern multi cloud applications for customer service, cybersecurity, industrial automation, warehouse and retail automation, and we have a great GTC with over 200 talks from the brightest minds and science and industry. You're going to see amazing advances powered by accelerated computing and AI. Enjoy! I am an explorer, traveling across the Atlantic to unlock its mysteries and back in time to understand the origins of the universe. I am a visionary bringing sharper focus to researchers and brilliant clarity to surgeons I am a hero making treatments as unique as every patient and giving new life the chance to thrive I am a guardian looking out for dangers around us and in the depths below I am a helper enabling healthier more sustainable crops bringing them to market faster and preparing them for the table I am a creator building virtual worlds to help robots learn faster and make our connections stronger I am even an avatar and you can ask me any question who made this song? Ava used artificial intelligence to write this song and it was recorded by the London Symphony Orchestra I am AI brought to life by Nvidia deep learning and brilliant minds everywhere