SOURCE: gtc_keynote
YEAR: 2021
DOMAIN: gpu_computing
---
We make a connection through a rock for the song It never used to our action So let this current grow We will be soft, we will stay up to the roof We will be lucky and lucky We promise that we will be able to trust We will still be able to trust We will keep doing what's down We will keep doing tonight We will keep doing tonight We will keep doing tonight Check the lines that are going on We will keep doing tonight Check the lines that are going on We will keep doing tonight We will keep doing tonight Someone's gonna take control of this day. Someone's gonna make the change. Someone's gonna raise their voice and say, this gotta be your better way. Yeah. And the ride is such a bad weekend. I can't even get into the camping camp. If I just say, we are the kids. And the ride is something that I would rather ride. It's a simple ride. It's a good thing to send people to something to the camping camp. I'm gonna take a picture of you. I'm gonna take a picture of you. Gotta find love and we'll win the win. Gotta find peace with your name or two days. Gotta find faith in someone. I'm sorry. We are the kids. If we are the kids. If we are the kids. We want to be here. Everybody's gonna be trying to catch us. We're trying to see what we can do. We're trying to catch us. We are the kids. We're just gonna be nice to you. We're gonna take a picture of you. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. So we're all jammed. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. Everybody's talking about me. I'm energy-catching. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. Everybody is laughing. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. We're all jammed. Everybody's talking about me. I know I'm going to say I can't make it, I can't make it, I can't make it. We're all jammed. Flashlights and discos Get in and off the limit Yeah I just want to make the face of all my world's wings Touching my wings One more season Let's look at it Those on the school too can it be still? Deities to save my favorite song And the people to start on And move on Still sent me I'm going to stop I'm going to stop They all belong They'll be sent me I'm going to stand on the limit I'm going to stop I'm going to stop They all belong They all belong They all belong So I'm just a... They all belong I'm going to stop They all belong They'll say, text, text, text, text, text I'm just a... I'm high on the vibration Yeah The way things keep you sitting too short You're the thing I love you It's not the only one When things begin And the world's not the only one Don't stop those things They don't know They just test me They bring me something And I'm going to stop They're putting you on Still sent me I'm going to stop They all belong They all belong They'll be sent me I'm going to stand on the limit I'm going to stand on the limit They all belong Yes Yes Yes They all belong They just trust me Yes I am a creator. Blending art and technology to immerse our senses. I am a healer helping us take the next step and see what's possible. I am a pioneer finding life-saving answers and pushing the edge to the outer months. I am a guardian of defending our oceans. I am a protector helping the earth breathe easier and watching over for generations to come. I am a storyteller giving emotion to worlds and bringing them to life. I am even the composer of the music. I am a brought to life by Nvidia, deep learning and brilliant minds everywhere. There are powerful forces shaping the world's industries. Artificial intelligence particularly has seen incredible advances. The AI software is delivered as a service from the cloud, performing automation at the speed of light. Software is now composed of microservices that scale across the entire data center, treating the data center as a single unit of computing. AI and 5G are the ingredients to kickstart the fourth industrial revolution where automation and robotics can be deployed far edges of the world. There is one more miracle we need, the Metaverse, a virtual world that is a digital twin of ours. Welcome to GTC 2021. We are going to talk about these dynamics and more. Let me give you the architecture of my talk. It's organized in four stacks. This is how we work, as a full-stack computing platform company. The flow also reflects the waves of AI and how we are expanding the reach of our platform to solve new problems and to enter new markets. First is Omniverse, built from the ground up on Nvidia's body of work. It is a platform to create and simulate virtual worlds. We feature many applications of Omniverse, like design collaboration, simulation and future robotic factories. The second stack is DGX and high performance data centers. I'll feature Bluefield, new DGX's, new chips, and the new work we're doing in AI, drug discovery and quantum computing. Here I'll also talk about ARM and new ARM partnerships. The third stack is one of our most important new platforms, Nvidia EGX with Arial 5G. Now enterprises and industries can do AI and deploy AI on fine G. We'll talk about Nvidia AI and pre-trained models, like Jarvis Conversational AI. And finally, our work with the auto industry to revolutionize the future of transportation and video drive. We'll talk about new chips, new platforms and software and lots of new customers. Let's get started. Scientists, researchers, developers and creators are using Nvidia to do amazing things. Your work gets global reach with the install base of over a billion kuda GPUs shipped and 250 exo-flops of GPU computing power in cloud. 2.5 million developers and 7,500 startups are creating thousands of applications for a solid-ready computing. We're thrilled by the growth of the ecosystem we're building together. It will continue to put our heart and soul into advancement. Building tools for the ventures of our time is our purpose. And in doing so, we also help create the future. Demarcartizing high-performance computers is one of Nvidia's greatest contributions to science. With just a GeForce, every student can have a supercomputer. This is how Alex Krashevsky, Elia and Hinton train Alex Net that caught the world's attention on deep learning. And with GPUs in supercomputers, we gave scientists a time machine. A scientist once told me that because of Nvidia's work, he could do his life's work in his lifetime. I can't think of a greater purpose. Let me highlight a few achievements from last year. Nvidia is continually optimizing the full stack. With the chips you have, your software runs faster every year and even faster if you upgrade. On our golden suite of important science patents, we increased performance 13 fold in the last five years. And for some, performance doubled every year. NamDee Molecular Dynamics Simulator, for example, was re-architected and can now run across multiple GPUs. Researchers live at Dr. Rami Amaro and UC San Diego use this multi-GPU NamDee running on Oak Ridge Summit Supercomheres 20,000 Nvidia GPUs to do the largest atomic simulation ever. 305 million atoms. This work was critical to a better understanding of the COVID-19 virus and accelerated the making of the vaccine. Dr. Amaro and her collaborators won the Gordon Bell Award for this important work. I'm very proud to welcome Dr. Amaro and more than a hundred thousand of you to this year's GTC, our largest ever-by-double. We have some of the greatest computer scientists and researchers of our time speaking here. Three touring award winners, 12 Gordon Bell Award winners, nine Kaggle Grand Masters, and even 10 Oscar winners. We're also delighted that the brightest minds from industry share in their discoveries. Leaders from every field, health care, auto, finance, retail, energy, internet services, every major enterprise IT company. They're bringing you their latest working COVID research, data science, cybersecurity, new approaches to computer graphics, and the most recent advances in AI robotics. In total, 1600 talks about the most important technologies of our time, from the leaders in the field that are shaping our world. Welcome to GTC. Let's start where Nvidia started. Computer graphics. Computer graphics is the driving force of our technology. Hundreds of millions of gamers and creators each year seek out the best that Nvidia has often. At its core, computer graphics is about simulations. Use mathematics and computer science to simulate the interactions of light and material, the physics of objects, particles, and waves, and now simulating intelligence and animation. The science, engineering, and artistry that we dedicated pursuit of achieving mother nature's physics has led to incredible advances. And allowed our technology to contribute to advancing the basic sciences, the arts, and the industries. This last year, we introduced the second generation of RTS, a new rendering approach that fuses respiration of programmable shading with hard work-solvered ray tracing and artificial intelligence. This is the culmination of 10 years of research. RTS has reset computer graphics. Giving developers a powerful new tool just as RAS organization platforms. Let me show you some amazing footage from Games & Development. The technology and artistry is amazing. We're giving the world's billion gamers an incredible reason to operate. The technology and technology that we are giving the world's billion gamers a powerful new tool just as RAS organization platforms. The technology and technology that we are giving the world's billion gamers a powerful new tool just as RAS organization platforms. The technology and technology that we are giving the world's billion gamers a powerful new tool just as RAS organization platforms. The technology and technology that we are giving the world's billion gamers a powerful new tool just as RAS organization platforms. The technology and technology that we are giving the world's billion gamers a powerful new tool just as RAS organization platforms. The technology and technology that we are giving the world's billion gamers a powerful new tool just as RAS organization platforms. RTX is a reset of computer graphics. RTX is a reset of computer graphics. It has enabled us to build omniverse, a platform for connecting 3D worlds into a shared virtual. Once not unlike the science-fiction metaverse, first described by Neil Stevenson who is early 1990s novel Snowcrash, where the metaverse would be collectives of shared 3D spaces, and virtually enhance physical spaces that are extensions of the Internet. Pieces of the early metaverse vision are already here, massive online social games like Fort or user-creative virtual worlds like Minecraft. Let me tell you about omniverse from the perspective of two applications, design collaboration and digital tools. There are several major parts of the platform. First, the omniverse nucleus, a database engine that connects users, and enables the interchange of 3D assets and scene descriptions. Once connected, designers doing modeling, layout, shading, animation, lighting, special effects, or rendering, can collaborate to create a scene. The omniverse nucleus is described through the open standard USD, universal scene description, a fabulous interchange framework invented by Pixar. Multiple users can connect to nucleus, transmitting and receiving changes to the world as USD segments. The second part of omniverse is the composition, rendering, and animation engine. The simulation of the virtual world. Omniverse is a platform built from the ground up to be physically based. It is fully patrised. Physics is simulated with a media physics. Materials are simulated with a media MDL, and omniverse is fully integrated with the media AI. Omniverse is cloud native, multi-GPU scaling, and runs on any RTX platform and streams remotely to key demise. The third part is a video cloud XR, a star gated camera. You can teleport into omniverse with VR, and AI's can teleport out of omniverse with AR. Omniverse was released open beta in the semi. Let me show you what talented creators of me. The omniverse is a platform built from the ground up to be physically based. The omniverse is a platform built from the ground up to be physically based. Creators are doing amazing things with omniverse. At Foster Partners, designers in 17 locations in one world are designing buildings together in their omniverse shared virtual space. ILM is testing omniverse to bring together internal and external tool pipelines from multiple students. Omniverse is listening to collaborate, render final shots in real time, and create massive virtual sets like Holidays. Ericsson is using omniverse to do real-time 5G wave propagation simulation with many multi-path interferences. Twin Earth is creating a digital twin of Earth that will run on 20,000 Nvidia GPUs. An Activision is using omniverse to organize their board at 100,000 3D assets into a shared and searchable world. Bentley is the world's leading infrastructure engineering software company. Everything that's constructed, roads and bridges, rail and transit systems, airports and seaports, about 3% of the world's GDP worth 3 and a half trillion dollars. Bentley software is used to design, model, and simulate the largest infrastructure projects in the world. 90% of the world's top 250 engineering firms use them. They have a new platform called iTwin, an exciting strategy used the 3D model after construction to monitor and optimize the performance throughout its life. We're super excited to partner with Bentley to create infrastructure digital twins and omniverse. Bentley is the first third-party company to be developing a suite of applications on the omniverse platform. This is just an awesome use of omniverse, a great example of digital twins and Bentley is the perfect partner. And here's Perry Nightingale from WPP, the largest ad agency in the world. Tell you what they're doing. WPP is the largest marketing services organisation on the planet. And because of that, we also want the largest production companies in the world. That is a major carbon hotspot for us. We partnered with Nvidia to capture locations virtually and bring them to life at studios with omniverse. Over 10 billion points are turned into a giant mesh. For the first time, we can shoot locations virtually that are as real as the actual places themselves. Omniverse also changes the way we make work, a collaborative platform that means multiple artists, multiple points in the pipeline, multiple parts of the world can collaborate with the single scene. Real-time CGI and sustainable studios, collaboration with omniverse, is the future of film WPP. One of the most important features of omniverse is that it obeys the laws of physics. Omniverse can simulate particles, fluids, materials, springs and cabins. This is a fundamental capability for robotics. Once trained, the AI and software can be downloaded from omniverse. In this video, you'll see omniverse's physics simulation with rigid and soft bodies, fluids and finite element model. And a lot more. Enjoy! Omniverse is a physically-based virtual world where robots can learn through all sizes and shapes, box movers, pick-and-place arms, forklifts, cars, trucks. In the future, a factory will be a robot orchestrating many robots inside, building cars that are robots themselves. We can use omniverse to create virtual factory, train and simulate the factory and this robotic workers inside. The AI and software that run the virtual factory are exactly the same as what will run the action. The virtual and physical factories and their robots will operate in a loop. They are digital tournaments, connecting to ERP systems, simulating the throughput of the factory, simulating new plant layouts and becoming the dashboard of the operator, even uplinking into a robot to tell an operator. BMW may very well be the world's largest custom manufacturing company. BMW produces over 2 million cars in here, in their most advanced factory, the Cartoon. Every car is different. We're working with BMW to create a future factory designed completely in digital, simulated from beginning to end in omniverse, creating a digital twin and operating a factory where robots humans work together. Let's take a look at the BMW factory. Welcome to the BMW production gencine. I am pleased to show you why BMW sets the standards for innovation and flexibility. Our collaboration with the NVIDIA omniverse and NVIDIA AI leads into a new era of digitalization of automobile production. Fantastic to be with you, Moan. I'm excited to do this virtual factory visit with you. We are inside the digital twin of BMW's assembly system, powered by omniverse. For the first time, we are able to have our entire factory in simulation. Global teams can collaborate using different software packages like Revit, Ketia or Point Clouds to design and plan the factory in real time 3D. The capability to operate in a perfect simulation revolutionizes BMW's planning processes. Those gas kits on Red light screen? Yeah BMW regularly reconfigures its factories to accommodate new vehicle launches. Here we see two planning experts located in different parts of the world testing a new line design in omniverse. One of them, warm holes into an assembly simulation with the motion capture suit. Records task movements while the other expert adjusts the line design in real time. They work together to optimize the line as well as worker ergonomics and safety. Can you tell how far I have to come down there? I don't know. I'll catch you at Tower 1 but there's perfect. We would like to be able to do this at scale in simulation. That's exactly why Nvidia has digital human for simulation. Digital humans are trained with data from real-sotions. You can then use digital humans in simulation to test new workflows for worker ergonomics and efficiency. Now your factory is employ 57,000 people that share workspace with main robots designed to make their jobs easier. Let's talk about them. You're right, Jensi. Robots are crucial or a modern production system. With Nvidia Isaac Robotics platform, the MW is deploying a fleet of intelligent robots, logistics to improve the material flow and our production. This agility is necessary since we produce 2.5 million vehicles per year. 99% of them are custom. Synthetic data generation and domain randomization available on Isaac or Keita Boost strapping machine learning. Isaac said generates millions of synthetic images and varied the environment to teach the robots. Domain randomization can generate an infinite permutation of photo-realistic objects, textures, orientations and lighting conditions. It is ideal for generating ground truth, whether for detection, segmentation, or depth perception. Let me show you an example of how we can combine it all to operate your factory. With Nvidia's fleet command, your associates can securely orchestrate robots and other devices in the factory for mission control. They can monitor in real time complex manufacturing cells, update software over the air, launch robot missions, and tell the operating. When a robot needs a helping hand and a alert can be sent to mission control, and one of your associates can take control to help the robot. We're in the digital twin of one of your factories, but you have 30 others spread across 15 countries, the scale of BMW production's impressive one. Indeed, Jensen, the scale and complexity of our production network requires BMW to constantly innovate. I am happy about the tight collaboration between our two companies. Nvidia omniverse and NVGA AI give us the chance to simulate all 31 factories in our production network. These new innovations will reduce the planning times, improve flexibility and precision, and at the end produce 30% more efficient planning processes. Milan, I could not be more proud of the innovations that our collaboration is bringing to the factories of the future. I appreciate you hosting me for a virtual visit of the digital twin of your BMW production. It is a work of art. The ecosystem is really excited about omniverse. This open platform, with USD Universal 3D Interchange, connects them into a large network of users. We have 12 connectors to major design tools already, with another 40 in front. Omniverse connector SDK is available for download. You can see that the most important design tools are already signed up. Our lighthouse partners are from some of the world's largest industries, meet entertainment, gaming, architecture engineering construction, manufacturing, telecommunications, infrastructure and anonymity. Computer makers worldwide are building Nvidia certified work stations, notebooks and servers optimized for omniverse. And starting this summer, omniverse will be available for enterprise license, omniverse, and video platform for creating and simulating shared virtual worlds. Data Center is the new unit of computing. Cloud computing and AI are driving fundamental changes in the architecture of data centers. Traditionally, enterprise data centers ran model-efficient software packages. Virtualization started a trend towards software-defined data centers, allowing applications to move about and letting IT manage from a single pane of glass. With virtualization, the compute networking storage and security functions are emulated in software running on the CPU. Though easier to manage, the added CPU load reduced the data center's capacity to run applications, which is this primary purpose. This illustration shows the added CPU load in the gold color part of the stack. Cloud computing re-architect the data centers again, now to provision services for billions of consumers. Moleolithic applications were disaggregated into smaller microservices that can take advantage of any idle resource. Equally important, multiple engineering teams can work concurrently using CI-CD methods. Data center networks became swamped by East West traffic generated by disaggregated microservices. CSPs tackled this with Melanox's high speed low latency networking. Then deep learning emerged. Magical internet services will roll down, attracting more customers, and better engagement than ever. Deep learning has compute intensive, which drove adoption of GPUs. Nearly overnight, consumer AI services became the biggest users of GPU super computing technologies. Now, adding zero-trust security initiatives makes infrastructure software processing one of the largest workloads in the data center. The answer is a new type of chip. For data center infrastructure processing, like Envideas Bluefield TPM, let me illustrate this with our own cloud gaming service GeForce NL as an example. GeForce NL is Envideas GeForce in the cloud service. GeForce NL serves 10 million members in 70 countries. Incredible growth. GeForce NL is a seriously hard consumer service to deliver. Everything matters. Speed light, visual quality, frame rate, response, smoothness, startup time, server cost, and most important of all security. We're transitioning GeForce NL to Bluefield. With Bluefield, we can isolate the infrastructure from the game instances and offload and accelerate the networking storage and security. The GeForce NL infrastructure is costly. With Bluefield, we will improve our quality of service and concur users at the same time. The ROI of Bluefield is excellent. I'm thrilled to announce our first data center infrastructure SDK. Doka 1.0 is available today. Doka is our SDK to program Bluefield. There's all kinds of great technology inside. Deep packet inspection, secure boot, TLS crypto offload, regular expression acceleration, and a very exciting capability, a hardware-based, real-time cloud that could be used for synchronous data centers, 5G, and video broadcasts. We have great partners working with us to optimize leading platforms on Bluefield. Infrastructure software providers, edge and CDM providers, cybersecurity solutions, and storage providers. Basically, the world's leading companies in data center infrastructure. Though we're just getting started with Bluefield 2, today we're announcing Bluefield 3, 22 billion transistors, the first 400 gigabit per second network engine, 16 RM CPUs to run the entire virtualization software stack, for instance, running VMware ESX. Bluefield 3 takes security to a whole new level. Fully offloading, saw rating IPs, TLS cryptography, secret key management, and regular expression processing. We're on a pace to introduce a new Bluefield generation in 18 months. Bluefield 3 will do 400 gigabits per second and be 10x to process capability Bluefield 2. And Bluefield 4 will do 800 gigabits per second and add NVIDIA's AI computing technologies to give another 10x boost. A hundred x in three years, and all of it will be needed. A simple way to think about this is that a third of the roughly 30 million data center servers ship each year are consumed running the software-defined data centers stack. This workload is increasing much faster than most long. So unless we offload and accelerate this workload, data centers will have fewer and fewer CPUs to run applications. The time for Bluefield has come. At the beginning of the big bang of modern AI, we recognize the need to create a new kind of computer for a new way of developing software. Software will be written by software running on the AI computers. This new type of computer will need new chips, new system architecture, new ways to network, new software, and new methodologies and tools. We've invested billions into this intuition and as proven helpful to the industry. It all comes together as DGX, a computer for AI. We offer DGX as a fully integrated system, as well as offer the components to the industry to create differentiated options. I am pleased to see so much AI research advancing because of these units. Top universities, research hospitals, telcos, banks, consumer products companies, car makers, and aerospace companies. DGX helped their AI researchers whose expertise is rare, scarce, and their work strategic. It is imperative to make sure they have the right instrument. Simply, if software is to be written by computers, then companies with best software engineers will also need the best computers. We offer several configurations, all software compatible. The DGX A100 is a building one that contains five pedophlops of computing and super fast storage and networking defeating. DGX Station is an AI data center in a box designed for work groups plus into a normal outlet. And DGX SuperPod is a fully integrated, fully network optimized AI data center as a product. SuperPod is for intensive AI research and development. And Vitya's own new supercomputer costs green, is four superpods. It is the fifth fastest super computer and the fastest industrial supercomputer in the world's top 500. We have a new DGX Station 320G. DGX Station can train large models. 320 gigabytes of super fast HBM2E connected to 4A100 GPUs. Over 8 terabytes per second of memory memory. 8 terabytes transferred in one second. It would take 40 CPU servers to achieve this memory memory. DGX Station plugs into a normal wall outlet like a big gaming ring. Consumes just 1500 watts and is liquid cool to a silent 30-70V. Take a look at the cinematic that our engineers in 15 days. A CPU cluster of this performance would cost about a million dollars today. DGX Station is $149,000. The ideal AI programming companion for every AI researcher. Today we're also announcing a new DGX SuperPod, three major upgrades. The new 80 gig A100, which brings the super pod to 90 terabytes of HBM2 memory. With aggregate bandwidth of 2.2 exabytes per second. It would take 11,000 CPU servers to achieve this memory. About a 250 rack data center, 15 times bigger than the super pod. Second, super pod has been upgraded with Nvidia Bluefield 2. Super pod is now the world's first cloud native super computer, multi-tenant shareable with full isolation and bare metal performance. And third, we're offering base command, the DGX management and orchestration tool used within opinion. We use base command to support thousands of engineers. Over 200 teams, consuming a million plus GPU hours a week. DGX SuperPod starts at $7 million in scales to $60 million for a full system. Let me highlight three great uses of DGX. Transformers have led to dramatic breakthroughs in natural language processing. Like RNN and LSTM, transformers are designed to inference on sequential data. However, transformers, more than meets the eyes, are not trained sequentially. But use a mechanism called attention such that transformers can be trained in parallel. This breakthrough reduced training time, which more importantly enabled the training of huge models with a correspondingly enormous amount of data. Unsupervised learning can now achieve excellent results, but the models are huge. Google's Transformer was 65 million parameters. Open AI's GPT-3 is 175 billion parameters. That's 3,000 times larger in just three years. The applications for GPT-3 are really incredibly. Generate document summaries, email phrase completion, GPT-3 can even generate JavaScript and HTML from plain English, essentially telling an AI to write code based on which you want to do. Model sizes are growing exponentially. On a pace of doubling every two and a half months, we expect to see multi-trillion parameter models by next year and 100 trillion plus parameter models by 2023. As a very loose comparison, the human brain has roughly 125 trillion synapses. So these Transformer models are getting quite the same age. Training models of this scale is incredible computer science. Today, we're announcing Envidia Megatron for training transformers. Megatron trains giant Transformer models. It partitions and distributes the model for optimal multi-GPU and multi-node parallelism. Megatron does fast data learning, micro-batching, scheduling and syncing, kernel fusion, and pushes the limits of every Envidia invention. Nickel, NV-Link, Infiniband, Tensercourse. Even with Megatron, a trillion parameter model will take three to four months to train on Selene. So lots of DGX Superpods will be needed around the world. Everything giant Transformer models is also a great computer science challenge. GPT-3 is so big with so many floating point operations that it would take a dual CPU server over a minute to respond to a single 128 work query. And GPT-3 is so large that it doesn't fit in GPU memory, so it will have to be distributed. Multi-GPU multi-node inference has never been done. Today, we're announcing the Megatron Triton inference server. A DGX with Megatron Triton will respond within a second, not a minute, a second, and for 16 queries at the same time. DGX is a thousand times faster and opens up many new use cases like call centers, port, where a one minute response is effectively on use. Naver is Korea's number one search engine. They installed a DGX Superpod in a running their AI platform, Klova, to train language models for Korean. I expect many leading service providers around the world to do the same. Use DGX to develop and operate region-specific industry-specific language services. NVIDIA Claret Discovery is our suite of acceleration libraries created for computational drug discovery, from imaging to quantum chemistry to gene variant calling to using NLP to understand genetics and using AI to generate new drug compounds. Today, we're announcing four new models available in Claret Discovery. Megatron Triton is a model for generating bi-molecular compounds. This method is seen recent success within cellical medicine using AI to find a new drug less than two years. NVIDIA Taxi, denoising algorithm for rare and single cell epigenomics, is helping to understand gene expression for individual selves. Alpha-fold 1 is a model that can predict the 3D structure of a protein from the amino acid sequence. Gator Tron is the world's largest clinical language model that can read and understand Dr. Snoops. Gator Tron was developed at University of Florida using Megatron and trained on a DGX SuperPide, gifted to his alma model by Chris Malakowski, who founded NVIDIA with courtesy. Oxford Nanopport is the third generation genomic sequencing technology capable of ultra-high throughput and digitizing biology. One-fifth of the SARS-CoV-2 virus genomes in the global database will generate an offspring. Last year, Oxford Nanopport developed a diagnostic test for COVID-19 called LAMP one, which is used by NESHES. Oxford Nanopport is GP-excelerant throughout. DNA samples pass through nanopports, and the current signal is fed into an AN model, like speech recognition, but trained to recognize genetic code. Another model called Medica reads the code in Detects Genetic Variance. Both models were trained on DGX SuperPide. These new deep learning algorithms achieve 99.9% detection accuracy of single nucleotide bearings. This is a gold standard of human sequencing. Pharma is a $1.3 trillion industry where a new drug can take 10 plus years and fail 90% of the time. Schrodinger is the leading physics space and machine learning computational platform for drug discovery and material science. Schrodinger is already a heavy user of VIDEA GPUs, recently entering into an agreement to use hundreds of millions of NVIDIA GPU hours on the Google Cloud. Some customers can't use the Cloud. So today we're announcing a partnership to accelerate Schrodinger's drug discovery workflow with NVIDIA Clare Discovery Libraries and NVIDIA DGX. The world's top 20 Parmas use Schrodinger today. Their researchers are going to see a giant boost in productivity. Recursion is a biotech company using leading edge computer science to decode biology to industrialized drug discovery. The Recursion operating system is built on NVIDIA DGX Superpide for generating, analyzing, and gaining insight from massive biological and chemical datasets. They call their Superpide the Bio-Hype One. It is the most powerful computer at any farmer today. Using deep learning on DGX, Recursion is classifying cell responses after exposure to small molecule drones. Quantum computing is a field of physics that studies the use of natural quantum behavior, superposition, entanglement, and interference to build a computer. The computation is performed using quantum circuits that operate on quantum bits called qubits. Cubits can be 0 or 1 like a classical computer, but also in superposition, meaning they exist simultaneously in both states. The qubits can be entangled where the behavioral one can affect the controlled behavior of others. Adding and entangling more qubits let quantum computers calculate exponentially more information. There is a large community around the world doing research in quantum computers and algorithms. Well over 50 teams in industry, academia, and national labs are researching the field. We're working with many of them. Quantum computing can solve exponential order complexity problems, like factoring large numbers for cryptography, simulating atoms and molecules for drug discovery. Finding shortest path optimizations, like a traveling salesman problem. The limiting quantum computing is decoherence, falling out at quantum states, caused by the tiniest of background problems. So error correction is essential. It is estimated that to solve meaningful problems, several million physical qubits will be required to sufficiently error correct. The research community is making fast progress, doubling physical qubits each year. So likely achieving the milestone by 2035, to 2040, well within my career. In the meantime, our mission is to help the community research, the computer tomorrow with the fastest computer of today. Today we're announcing Ku Quantum, an acceleration library designed for simulating quantum circuits, for both tensor network solvers and state vector solvers. It is optimized to scale to large GPU memories, multiple GPUs, and multiple DGX nodes. The speed up of Ku Quantum on DGX is excellent. Running the Ku Quantum Benchmark, state vector simulation takes 10 days on a dual CPU server, but only two hours on a DGX A100. Ku Quantum on DGX can predictably simulate tens of qubits. And Caltech, using Contangra Cumity, simulated the Sikamor quantum circuit at depth 20 in record time, using Ku Quantum on a video-saleen supercomputer. All would have taken years on CPUs, can now run in a few days on Ku Quantum and DGX. Ku Quantum will accelerate quantum circuit simulators, so researchers can design better quantum computers and verify the results, architect hybrid quantum classical systems, and discover more quantum optimal algorithms, like shores and grovers. Ku Quantum on DGX is going to give the quantum community a huge boost. I'm hoping Ku Quantum would do for quantum computing, what QDNN did for deep learning. Modern Davis Center's host diverse applications that require varying system architectures. Enterprise servers are optimized for a balanced, strong single-threative performance, and a nominal number of cores. Hyper-scale servers, optimized for microservice containers, are designed for a high number of low-cost and great energy efficiency. Storage servers are optimized for a large number of cores in high-I-O through-play. Deep learning training servers are built like super computers, with the largest number of fast CPU cores, the fastest memory, the fastest I-O, and high-speed lengths to connect the GPUs. Deep learning inference servers are optimized for energy efficiency, and best ability to process a large number of models concurrently. The genius of the X86 server architecture is the ability to do a good job using varying configurations of CPU, memory, PCI Express, and peripherals to serve all of these applications. Yet processing large amounts of data remains a challenge for computer systems today. This is particularly true for AI models, like transformers and recommender systems. Let me illustrate the bottleneck with half of a DGS. Each ampere GPU is connected to 80 gigabytes of super fast memory, running at 2 terabytes per second. Together, the four amperes process 320 gigabytes at 8 terabytes per second. Contrast that with CPU memory, which is one terabyte large, but only 0.2 terabytes per second. The CPU memory is three times larger, but 40 times slower than the GPU. We would love to utilize the full 1,000, 3, or 20 gigabytes of memory in this node to train AI models. So why not something like this? Make faster CPU memories, connect four channels to the CPU, a dedicated channel to feed each GPU. Even if a package can be made, PCI Express is now the bottleneck. We can surely use NVLink, NVLink is fast enough, but no x86 CPU has NVLink, not to mention four end-banks. Today, we're announcing our first data center CPU, Project Grace. Named after Grace Hopper, a computer scientist and US Navy rear-evolve, who in the 50s partnered computer program. Grace is arm-based and purpose-built for accelerated computing applications of large amounts of data such as AI. Grace highlights the beauty of ARM. Their IP model allowed us to create the optimal CPU for this application, which achieves X-Factor speed. The ARM core in Grace is a next-generation after-shelf IP for servers. Each CPU will deliver 300 spec-in with a total of over 2,400 spec-in-rate CPU performance for an 8 GPU to GX. For comparison, today's DGX, the highest performance computer in the world, is 450 spec-in-rate. 2,400 spec-in-rate with Grace versus 450 spec-in-rate today. So look at this again, before, after, before, after. Amazing increase in system and memory bandwidth. Today, we're introducing a new kind of computer, the basic building block of the modern data center. Here it is. What I'm about to show you brings together the latest GPU-excelerating computing, Melanox High Performance Networking, and something brand new. The final piece of the puzzle. The world's first CPU designed for terabyte-scale accelerating computing, for secret codename, Grace. This powerful ARM-based CPU gives us the third foundational technology for computing and the ability to re-architect every aspect of the data center for AI. We're thrilled to announce the Swiss National Supercomputing Center will build a supercomputer powered by Grace and our next-generation GPU. The new supercomputer, called ELPs, will be 20 exoflops for AI, 10 times faster than the world's fastest supercomputer today. ELPs will be used to do whole-earth-scale weather inclinement simulation, quantum chemistry, and quantum physics for the large H-joint collayer. ELPs will be built by HP Enterprise and come online in 2023. We're thrilled by the enthusiasm of the super-computing community, welcoming us to make ARM a top-notch scientific computing platform. Our data center roadmap is now a rhythm consisting of three chips, CPU, GPU, and GPU. Each chip architecture has a two-year rhythm, would likely a kicker in between. One year will focus on X86 platforms, one year will focus on ARM platforms. Every year we'll see new exciting products for us. The Nvidia Architecture and Platforms will support X86 and ARM, whatever customers and markets prefer. Three chips, yearly leaps, one architecture. ARM is the most popular CPU in the world. For good reason, it's super-energy-efficient. Its open licensing model inspires a world of innovators to create products around me. ARM is used broadly in mobile and embedded today. For other markets like the cloud, Enterprise, and Edge data centers, super-computing and PCs, ARM is just starting and has great growth opportunities. Each market has different applications and has unique systems, software, peripherals, and ecosystems. For the markets we serve, we can accelerate ARM's adoption. Let's start with the big name, Cloud. One of the earliest designers of ARM CPUs for data centers, VWS. Its Graviton CPUs are extremely impressive. Today, we're announcing and video-nate-ws are partnering to bring Graviton to and Nvidia GPUs together. This partnership brings ARM into the most demanding cloud workings, AI, and cloud gaming. Mobile gaming is growing fast and is the primary form of gaming in some markets. With AWS design Graviton 2, users can stream ARM-based applications and Android games straight from AWS. It's expected later this year. We're announcing a partnership with Anpure Computing to create a scientific and cloud computing SDK and reference system. Anpure Computing's ultra-CPUs excellent. 80 cores, 285 spec in 17, right up there with the highest performance X86. We're seeing excellent reception at super-computing centers around the world and at Android cloud-gaming services. We're also announcing a partnership with Marvel to create an Edge and Enterprise Computing SDK and reference system. Marvel Oction excels at IO storage and 5G processing. This system is ideal for hyper-converged Edge servers. We're announcing a partnership with MediaTek to create a reference system and SDK for Chrome OS and Linux PCs. MediaTek is the world's largest SOC make. Combining Nvidia GPUs and MediaTek SOCs will make excellent PCs and openings. AI, computers, automating intelligence is the most powerful technology force of our time. We see AI in four ways. The first way was to reinvent computing for this new way of doing software. We're all in and have been driving this for nearly 10 years. The first adopters of AI were the Internet companies. They have excellent computer scientists, large computing infrastructure, and ability to collect a lot of training. We're now at the beginning of the next one. The next way is Enterprise and Industrial Edge. We're AI can revolutionize the world's largest industries. From manufacturing, logistics, agriculture, healthcare, financial services, and transportation. There are many challenges to overcome, one of which is connectivity which by G will solve. And then autonomous systems, self-driving cars are an excellent example, but everything that moves will eventually be autonomous. The Industrial Edge and autonomous systems are the most challenging, but also the largest opportunities for AI to make a new method. Trillion dollar industries can soon apply AI to improve productivity and invent new products, services, and business models. We have to make AI easier to use. Turn AI from computer science to computer products. We're building the new computing platform for this fundamentally new software approach, the computer for the age of AI. AI is not just about an algorithm. Building and operating AI is a fundamental change in every aspect of software. Andre Carpathi rightly called its software 2.0. Machine learning at the highest level is a continuous learning system that starts with data scientists developing data strategies and engineering predictive features. This data is the digital life experience of a company. Training involves inventing or adapting an AI model that learns to make desired predictions. Simulation and validation test the AI application for accuracy, generalization, and potential bias. And finally, orchestrating a fleet of computers, whether in your data center or at the edge in the warehouse, farms or wireless-based issues. And video created with chips, systems, and libraries need it for end-to-end machine learning. For example, technologies like TensorCourt GPUs, NVLIM, DGS, CUDNN, RAPID, SNCCL, GPU DirectDocad, and so much more. We call the platform NVidia AI. NVidia AI libraries accelerate every step from data processing to fleet orchestration. NVidia AI is integrated into all of the industry's popular tools and workflows. NVidia AI is in every cloud used by the world's largest companies and by over 7,500 AI startups around the world. And NVidia AI runs on any system that includes NVidia GPUs. From PCs and laptops, to workstations, to supercomputers, in any cloud, to our $99 jettison robot computer. One segment of computing we've not served is enterprise computing. 70% of the world's enterprise run NVM, as we do at NVidia. VMware was created to run many applications on one virtualized machine. AI on the other hand runs a single job, bare metal, unmultipled GPUs, and often multiple nodes. All of the NVidia optimizations for compute and data transfer are now plumbed through the VMware stack, so AI workloads can be distributed to multiple systems and achieve bare metal performance. The VMware stack is also offloaded and accelerated on NVidia Bluf. NVidia AI now runs in its full glory on VM. Which means everything that has been accelerated by NVidia AI now runs great on VM. AI applications can be deployed and orchestrated with Kubernetes running on VMware tonsum. We call this platform NVidia EGX for enterprise. The enterprise IT ecosystem is thrilled. Finally, the 300,000 VMware enterprise customers can easily build an AI computing infrastructure that seamlessly integrates into their existing environment. In total, over 50 servers from the world's top server makers will be certified for NVidia EGX enterprise. Blufield 2 offloads and accelerates the VMware stack and does the networking for distributed computing. Enterprise can choose bigger small GPUs for heavy compute or heavy graphics workloads like omnipres or makes a match. All run in video AI. Enterprise companies make up the world's largest industries and they operate at the edge. In hospitals, factories, plants, warehouses, stores, farms, city roads, far from data centers, the missing link is 5G. Consumer 5G is great, but private 5G is revolution. Today, we're announcing the Arial A100. Bring together 5G and AI into a new type of computing platform designed for the edge. Arial A100 integrates the Ampere GPU and Blufield GPU into one card. This is the most advanced PCI Express card ever created. So it's not a surprise that Arial A100 and an EGX system will be a complete 5G base station. Arial A100 delivers up to full 20GB per second and can process up to 9, 100MHz massive MyMong for 64T 64R or 64T transmen and 64Receive antenna arrays. Stay-at-the-art capabilities. Arial A100 is software-defining. With accelerated features like 5, virtual network functions, network acceleration, packet pacing, and line rate cryptography. Our partners, Ericsson, Fujitsu, Mavinew, Outran, and Redisys will build their total 5G solutions on top of the Arial LiDemar. NVIDIA EGX server with Arial A100 is the first 5G base that is also a cloud-new, secure AI Edge data center. We have brought the power of the cloud to the 5G edge. Arial also extends the power of 5G into the cloud. Today, we're excited to announce that Google will support NVIDIA Arial in the GCP cloud. I have an important new platform tell you about. The rise of microservice-based applications in hybrid cloud has exposed billions of connections in a data center to potential talent. Modern Zero Trust security models assume the intruder is already inside. And all container-to-container communications should be inspecting, even within a node. This is not possible today. The CPU load of monitoring every piece of traffic is simply too great. Today, we're announcing NVIDIA Morpheus, a data center security platform for real-time, all-packet and special. Morpheus is built on NVIDIA AI and video Bluefield, NetQ network telemetry software and EGX. We're working to create solutions with industry leaders in data center security, Fortinet, Red Hat, Cloud Flare, Splunk, F5, and Area Cyber Security. An early customer is Booz Allen Hamilton, Best Buy, and of course, our own team at NVIDIA Let me show you how we're using Morpheus 7. It starts with the network. Here we see a representation of a network where dots are servers and lines, the edges, are packed and flowing between those servers, except in this network Morpheus is deployed. This enables AI influencing the cross-errant tier network, including East West track. The particular model being used here has been trained to identify sensitive information, AWS credentials, GitHub credentials, private keys, passwords. If observed and packed, these would appear as red lines, and we don't see anything about it. Uh oh, what happened? An updated configuration was deployed to a critical business out on this server. This update accidentally removed encryption, and now everything that communicates with that app since it received sensitive credentials in the clear. This can quickly impact additional servers. This translates to continuing exposure on the network. The AI model in Morpheus is searching through every packet for any of these credentials, continually flagging when it encounters such data. And rather than using pattern magic, this is done with a general network, trained to generalize and identify patterns beyond static rule sets. Notice all of the individual lines. It's easy to see how quickly a human could be overwhelmed by the vast amount of data coming up. Scrolling through the raw data gives a sense of the massive scale and complexity that is blocked. With Morpheus, we immediately see the lines that represent leaked sensitive information. By hovering over one of those red lines, we show complete info about the credential, making it easy to triage and redeem it. But what happens when this remediation is necessary? Morpheus enables cyber applications to integrate and collect information for automated incident management and action prioritization, originating servers, destination servers, actual exposed credentials, and even the raw data is available. This speeds recovery and informs which keys were compromised and need to be rotated. With Morpheus, the chaos becomes manageable. The IT ecosystem has been hungry for an AI computing platform that's enterprise and edge-ridden. And Vity AI on EGS with Ariel5G is the foundation of what the IT ecosystem has been waiting for. We are supported by leaders from all across the IT industry, from systems, infrastructure software, storage and security, data analytics, industrial edge solutions, manufacturing design and automation to 5G infrastructure. To complete our enterprise offering, we now have NVIDIA AI Enterprise software. So businesses can get direct line support from NVIDIA. NVIDIA AI Enterprise is optimized and certified from VMware and offers services to support needed by mission critical enterprises. Deep learning has unquestionably revolutionized computing. Researchers continue to innovate at light speed with new models and new variants, or creating new systems to expand AI into new segments like ARM, Enterprise or 5G Edge. We're also using the systems to do basic research in AI and building new AI products and services. Let me show you some of our work in AI, basic and applied research. DLSS, deep learning super sample, style GAN, AI high resolution image generating, GAN craft, a neural rendering engine, turning Minecraft into realistic 3D. GAN verse 3D turns photographs into animatable 3D models. Face bit to bit, a talking head rendering engine that can reduce streaming bandwidth by 10X while reposing the head and eyes. Cint reel, a quadruped train and omniverse and the AI can run in a real robot, digital tweets. Cint net, a physics and form neural network solver that can simulate large scale multi-physics, biomegotron, the largest biomedical language model ever training. 3D GT, omniverse synthetic data generation, and ordnance, a machine learning quantum solver for quantum chemistry. This is just a small sampling of the AI work we're doing at MD. We're building AI's to use in our products and platforms. We're also packaging up the models to be easily integrated into your applications. These are essentially no coding open source applications and you can modify them. Now we're offering NGC pre-train models that you can plug into these applications at once in the world. These pre-train models are production quality, trained by experts, and will continue to benefit from refinement. There are new credentials to tell you about models development, testing and use, and each comes with a reference application sample code. NVIDIA pre-train models are state-of-the-art and meticulously trained, but there is infinite diversity of application domains, environments, and specializations. No one has all the data. Sometimes it's rare, sometimes they're trade secrets. So we created a technology for you to fine-tune and adapt and VIDEA pre-train models for your applications. TOW applies transfer learning on your data to fine-tune our models with your data. TOW has an excellent federated learning system to let multiple parties collectively train a shared model while protecting data prides. NVIDIA federated learning is a big deal. Researchers in different hospitals can collaborate on one AN model while keeping their data separate to protect patient prides. TOW uses NVIDIA's great tensor RIT to optimize the model for the target GPU system. With NVIDIA pre-train models in TOW, something previously impossible for many can now be done now. Fleet command is a cloud-native platform for securely operating and orchestrating AI across a distributed fleet of computers. It was purpose built for operating AI at the edge. Fleet command running on certified EGX systems will feature secure boot, attestation, uplink and downlink to a confidential uncle. From any cloud or on-prem, you can monitor to help your feet. Let's take a look at how one customer is using NGC pre-train models and TOW to fine-tune models and run in our Metropolis Smart CD application, orchestrated by Fleet command. No two industrial environments are the same and conditions routinely changed. Adaptive managing and operation-wise, AI and Mabel applications at the edge for unique, specific sites can do incredibly challenging, requiring a lot of data and time for model training. Here, we're building applications for a factory with multiple problems to solve. Understanding how a factory with force-based is used over time, ensuring worker safety would constantly evolve and machine-rate risk factors, inspecting products on the factory line where operations change routine. We start with a Metropolis application running three pre-train models from NGC. We're up and running in minutes, but since the environment is visually quite different from the data used to train this model, the video analytics accuracy at the specific site isn't great. People are not being accurate, recognized, tracked and defective being missed. Now let's use Nvidia TOW to solve this. With this simple UI, we retrained and adapt our pre-train models with labeled data from specific environment with a point. We select our data sets, each as a few hundred images as opposed to millions of labeled images required if we were to train this from scratch. With Nvidia TOW, we go from 65% to over 90% accuracy, and through pruning and quantization, compute complexity is reduced by 2x with no reduction in accuracy and real-time performance as many teeth. In this example, the result is three models specifically trained for our factory, all in just with one click, we update and deploy these optimized models onto a video certified server with flea command seamlessly and securely from the cloud. From secure boot to our confidential AI enclave and GPUs, application data and critical intellectual property remains safe. AI accuracy system performance and health can be monitored remotely. This establishes a feedback loop for continuous application enhancements. The factory now has an end-to-end framework to adapt to changing conditions often and easily. We make it easy to adapt and optimize NGC pre-train models with Nvidia TOW and deploy and orchestrate applications with flea command. We have all kinds of computer vision, speech, language and robotics models, and more coming all the time. Some are the worst of our genetics and medical imaging team. For example, this model that predicts supplemental oxygen needs from extravagant electronic health victims. This is a collaboration of 20 hospitals across eight countries and five continents for COVID-19. Federated learning and Nvidia TOW was essential to make this possible. The world needs a state-of-the-art conversational AI that can be customized and processed anywhere. Today, we're announcing the availability of Nvidia Jarvis. A state-of-the-art deep learning AI for speech recognition, language understanding, translations, and speech. End-to-end GPU excelling. Jarvis interacts in about a hundred milliseconds, listening, understanding, and responding faster than the blink of a human eye. We train Jarvis for several million GPU hours on over one billion pages of text and 60,000 hours of speech in different languages, accents, environments, and languages. Out of the box, Jarvis achieves a world class 90% recognition accuracy. You can get even better for your application by refining with your own data using Nvidia TOW. Jarvis supports five languages to English, Japanese, Spanish, German, French, and Russian. Jarvis does excellent translation. In the bilingual evaluation understudied benchmark, Jarvis scores 40 points for English to Japanese, and 50 points for English to Spanish. 40 is high quality and saving the art. 50 is considered fluent translation. Jarvis can be customized for domain jargon. We've trained Jarvis for technical and healthcare scenarios. It's easy with TOW. And Jarvis now speaks with expression and emotion that you can control. No more mechanical talk. And lastly, this is a big one. Jarvis can be deployed in the cloud on EGX in your data center at the edge in a shop, warehouse, or factory, running on EGX area or inside a delivery robot running on a Jetson computer. Jarvis early access program began last mid. And our conversational AI software has been downloaded 45,000 times. Among early users is T-Mobile, the US telecom giant. They're using Jarvis to offer exceptional customer service. The demands high quality and low latency needed in real-time speech recognition. We're announcing a partnership with Mozilla Common Voice, one of the world's largest multi-language voice data sets, and it's openly available to all. In video we'll use our DGXs to process and train Jarvis. With the data set of 150,000 speakers in 65 languages, and offer Jarvis back to the community quickly. So go to Mozilla Common Voice and make some recordings. Let's make universal translation possible and help people around the world understand the jar. Now let me show you Jarvis. The first part of Jarvis is speech recognition. Jarvis is over 90% accurate out of the box. That's world-class. And you can still use TAL to make it even better for your application, like customizing for healthcare jargon. Chast X-rays shows left-writual cardiac passing, and this may be due to athleticism, aspiration, or early pneumonia. I have no idea what I said, but Jarvis recognized it perfectly. Jarvis translation now supports five languages. Let's do Japanese. Excuse me, I'm looking for the famous Jungaro Ramen shop. It should be nearby, but I don't see it on my map. Can you show me the way? I'm very hungry. That's great. Excellent accuracy, I think. Instantaneous response. You can do German, French, and Russian with more languages on the way. Jarvis also speaks with feelings. Let's try this. The more you buy, the more you say. The more you buy, the more you save. I think we're going to need more enthusiasm. The more you buy, the more you save. And video Jarvis, state-of-the-art deep learning conversational AI, interactive response, five languages, customized with talent, and deployed from cloud to edge to autonomous systems. Recommender systems are the most important machine learning pipeline in the world today. It is the engine for search, ads, online shopping, music, boats, movies, user-generated content, news. Recommender systems predict your needs and preferences from past interactions with you, your explicit preferences, and learned preferences using methods called collaborative and content filtering. Trillions of items to be recommended to billions of people. The problem space is quite large. We would like to productize a state-of-the-art recommender system so that all companies can benefit from the transformative capabilities of the AI. We built an open-source recommender system framework called Merlin, which simplifies an end-to-end workflow from ETL to training, to validation, to inference. It is architected at the scale as your data set for us. And if you already have a ton of data, it is the fastest recommender system we're built. In our benchmarks, we achieve speed-ups of 10-50x for ETL, 2-10x for training, and 3-100 times for inference depending on the exact setup. Merlin is now available on NGC. Our vision for Maxine is to eventually be your avatar in virtual worlds created in omnipresent to enable virtual presence. The technologies of virtual presence can benefit video conferences today. Alice is going to tell you all about it. Hi everyone, I'm Alice and I'm the product manager for Nvidia Maxine. These days we're spending so much time doing video conferences. Don't you want to much better video communication experience? Today I'm so thrilled to share with you with your immediate Maxine, a suite of AI technologies that can improve the video conferencing experience for everyone. When combined with the Nvidia Jarvis, Maxine offers the most accurate speed to test. See, it's now transcribing everything I'm saying all in real time. And in addition, with the help of Jarvis, Maxine can also translate what I'm saying into multiple languages that make international meetings so much easier. Another great feature I'd love to share with you is Maxine's i-contact feature. OpenCamps1 I'm presenting and not looking at a camera. When I turn on Maxine's i-contact feature, it corrects the position of my eyes so that I'm looking back into the camera again. Now I can make i-contact with everyone else, the media experience just gets so much more engaging. Last but definitely not least, Maxine can even improve the video quality when bandwidth is insufficient. Now let's take a look at my video quality when bandwidth drops to as low as 50 kilopis per cent. Definitely not great. Maxine's AI face codec can improve the quality of my video even when bandwidth is as low as 50 kilopis per cent. The most powerful part of my seeing is that all of these amazing AI features can run civil tennis games together and all in real time. Or you can just pick and choose a film, it's just that flexible. Now before I go, let me turn off all Maxine features so you can see what I looked like without Maxine's help. Not ideal. Now let's turn back on all of Maxine features. See? That's so much better. Thanks to Nvidia Maxine. NGC has pre-trained models. TOWL lets you fine-tune and adapt models to your applications. Fleet command deploys and orchestrates your models. The final piece is the inference server. To infer insight from the continuous streams of data coming into your EGX servers for your cloud instance. Nvidia Triton is our inference server. Triton is a model scheduling and dispatch engine that can handle just about anything you throw at it. Any AI model that runs on QD and NG. So basically every AI model. From any framework, tensorflow, PyTWRT, Onyx, OpenVeno, tensorRT, or custom C++ Python back ends. Triton schedules on the multiple generations of Nvidia GPUs and x86 CPUs. Triton maximizes the CPU and GPU utilization. Triton scales with Kubernetes and handles live updates. Triton is fantastic for everything from image to speech recognition from recommenders to language understanding. But let me show you something really hard. Generating biomolecules for drug discovery. In drug discovery, it all comes down to finding the right molecule, the right shape, the right interactions with the protein, the right pharmacokinetic problems. Working with scientists from AstraZeneca and video researchers trained a language model to understand smiles, the language of chemical structures. We developed a model with Megatron and trained it on a superpy, then created a generative model that reads the structure of successful chemical drug components to then generate potentially effective novel components. Now we can use AI to generate candid compounds that can then be further refined with physics-based simulations like docking or shrewdgers PPP+. Generating with the CPU is slow. It takes almost eight seconds to generate one molecule. On a single A100 with Triton, it takes about 0.3 seconds, 32 times faster. Using Triton Inference Server, we can scale this up to a superpy and generate thousands of molecules per second. AI in simulation is going to revolutionize drug discovery. We provide these AI capability store ecosystem of millions of developers around the world. Thousands of companies are building their most important services on NVIDIA AI. Best Buy is using Morpheus as the foundation of AI-based anomaly detection in their network. GE Healthcare has built an echocardiogram that uses tensorRT to quickly identify different views of the wall motion of the heart and select the best ones for analysis. Spotify has over 4 billion platelets. They're using Rapids to analyze models more efficiently, which lets them refresh personalized playlist more often. This keeps their content fresh with the latest trends. WeChat is using tensorRT to achieve 8 millisecond rates, even when using the state-of-the-art natural language understanding models like Burke. This gives a more accuracy and relevant results when maintaining real-time response. It's great to see NVIDIA AI used to build these amazing AI services. NVIDIA AI on EGX with Arial 5G, the AI computing platform for the Enterprise and Edge, the next wave of AI. DriveAV is our AV platform in service. AV is the most intense machine learning and robotics challenge, one of the hardest but also the greatest impact. We're building an AV platform end-to-end from the AV chips and computers, sensor architecture, data processing, mapping, developing the driving software, creating the simulator in digital twin, fleet command operations to road testing. All of it to the highest functional safety and cybersecurity standards. None of these things are openly available, so we build them. We build it in modules, so our customers and partners in the $10 trillion transportation industry can leverage the parts they need. Meanwhile, we build our end-to-end AV service in partnership with Mercedes. AV computing demand is skyrocketing, or in as a giant leap over XAV. The more developers learn about AV, the more advanced the algorithms will come, and the greater the computing demand. More computation capacity gives teams faster iteration and speed marking, leading some to call tops the new horsepower, and many are realizing that the reserve computing capacity today is an opportunity to offer new services tomorrow. NVIDIA Drive is an open programmable platform that AI engineers all over the world are familiar new AI technologies being invented on the video AI custom. These inventions will be tomorrow's new services. Oran is an amazing AV computer. Today, we're announcing that Oran was also designed to be the central computer of the car. Oran will process in one central computer, the cluster, infotainment, passenger interaction AI, and very importantly, the confidence point, or the perception world model. The confidence view is what the car actually perceives around me, and construct it into a 3D surround model. This is what's in the mind of the autopilot panel. It is important that the car shows us that its surround perception is accurate so that we have confidence in its driving. In time, rearview mirrors will be replaced by surround 3D perception. The future is one central computer, four domains, virtualized and isolated, architected for functional safety and security, software defined, and upgradable for the life of the car, and super smart AI and beautiful graphics. Many car companies have already adopted Oran, and so we would help them tremendously to also leverage our full AV development platform. Today, we're announcing and video's eighth generation Hyperion Car Platform, including reference sensors, AV and central computers, the 3D ground truth data recorder, networking, and all of the essential software. Hyperion 8 is compatible with the Nvidia Drive AV staff, so easy to adopt and integrate elements for that. Hyperion 8 is a fully functional, going to production, open AV platform for the multi-trillion dollar transportation ecosystem. Oran will be in production in 2022. Meanwhile, our next generation is already a full gear, and will be yet another giant leap. Today, we're announcing and video drive atlin. Drive atlin will be 1000 tops on one chip. More than the total compute in most level 5 robo taxis today, to achieve higher autonomy in more conditions, sensor resolutions will continue to increase. There will be more of them. AI models will get more sophisticated. There will be more redundancy and safety functionality. We're going to need all of the computing we can get. Atlin is a technical marvel, fusing all of the Nvidia's technologies in AI, auto, robotics, safety, and Bluefield Security Data Center technologies. AV and software must be planned as multi-generational investments. The software you invested billions in today must carry over to the entire fleet and to future generations. The drive atlin, the next level, one architecture. The car industry has become a technology industry. Future cars are going to be completely programmable computers, and business models are going to be software driven. Car companies will offer software services to the life of the car. The new tech mindset sees the car not just as a product as sell, but as an install base of tens or hundreds of millions to build upon. Creating billions in services opportunities. The world's big brands have giant opportunities. Step one was going to electric. Now the big brands are making their new fleets autonomous and programmable. Orin will be powering many next generation EVs, and with Mercedes, we're building the end-to-end system. The world moves 10 trillion miles a year. If only a fraction of these miles were served by RoboTaxis, the opportune is giant. We expect RoboTaxis to start ramping in the next couple of years. These services will also be platforms for all kinds of new services to be built upon, like last mile development. The internet moves electrons. Trucks move atoms. The rise of e-commerce is putting intense pressure on the system. One click, and a new TV shows up at your house. Another click, and a cheeseburger shows up. This trend will only go on. The US will be short by 100,000 truckers by 2023. The EU is short 150,000 truckers already. China is short 4 million drivers. So ideas like driverless trucks from hub to hub, or driverless trucks inside of port, or warehouse campus, are excellent near-term ways to augment automation. We started my talk with Omniverse, or close with Omniverse. You could see how important it is to our work, to robotize, to anyone building AI's that interact with the fiscal world, to have a physically-based simulation, or digital twin. In the case of ISA, the digital twin is the factory in Omniverse. In the case of drive, the digital twin is the collective memories of the fleet captured in Omniverse. The drive digital twin is used throughout the development. It's used for HD map reconstruction, synthetic data generations we can bootstrap training in models, new scenarios simulations, hardware and the loop simulations, release validation, for replaying unfamiliar scenarios experienced by a car, or a teleoperator uplinking into a car to remotely pilot. The drive digital twin in Omniverse is a virtual world that every car and the fleet is connected to. Today, we're announcing that drive sim. The engine of drive digital twin will be available for the community in the summer. Let me show you what drive AV and drive sim can do. This is a mountain of technology. Enjoy. What a GTC. It's incredible to think how much was done in this last year. I spoke about several things. Nvidia is a full stack computing platform. We're building virtual worlds with Nvidia Omniverse, a miraculous platform that will help build the next wave of AI for robotics and self-driving cars. We announced new DJX systems and new software, Megatron for giant transformers, Clara for drug discovery, and Ku Quantum for quantum computing. Nvidia is now a three chip company with the addition of great CPU designed for a specialized segment of computing focused on giant scale AI and HPC. And for data center infrastructure processing, we announced Bluefield 3 and Doka 1. Nvidia is expanding the reach of AI. We announced an important new platform and Nvidia EGS with Ariel 5G to make AI accessible to all companies and industries. We're joined by the leaders of IT, VMware, computer makers, infrastructure software, storage, and security providers. And to lower the bar to the highest levels of AI, we offer pre-trained models like Jarvis conversational AI, Merlin Recommender System, Maxine Virtual Conferencing, and Morpheus AI Security. All of it is optimized on Nvidia AI Enterprise. And with new tools like Nvidia Tau, Fleet Command, and Triton, it is easy for you to customize and deploy on EGS and Drive, our end-to-end platform for the $10 trillion transportation industry, which is becoming one of the world's largest technology industries. From Oregon and Atme, the first 1000 tops SOC, to Hyperion 8, a fully operational reference AV car platform. To drive Sim, to drive AV, we're working with the industry at every layer. 20 years ago, all of this was science fiction. 10 years ago, it was a dream. Today, we're living it. I want to thank all of you, developers and partners, and a very special thanks to all the Nvidia employees. Our purpose is to advance our craft so that you, the divinches of our time, can advance yours. Ultimately, Nvidia is an instrument, an instrument for you to do your life's work. Have a great duty seat.