SOURCE: gtc_keynote
YEAR: 2024
DOMAIN: business_philosophy
---
Welcome back everyone after the short break. I know that many of you are looking forward to hearing from our next speaker, Jensen Wong. Jensen is at the cutting edge of artificial intelligence and all of the innovation, technology, and human capital that is needed to support it. My good friend and seeper calling John Chauvin is going to introduce Jensen, and I hope he's here somewhere, so I'm just going to keep talking. And then the two of them will have a conversation before taking some of your questions. John Chauvin certainly requires very little introduction to many most in this crowd. As my predecessor, as the trionid director of seeper, John is the one who started the seeper economic summit 20 years ago. So I would just like, right now, for all of us to give John Chauvin a huge round of applause and appreciate the community. That he had the foresight to build. For those of you who haven't been touched by John's research, his mentorship, or his friendship, here's what, here's just a snippet of what you might like to know about. And along with being the former seeper director and seeper senior fellow emeritus, John is the Charles R. Schwab professor of economics. He is also a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. He specializes in public finance and corporate finance and has published many articles over the years on Social Security, Health Economics, corporate and personal taxation, mutual funds, pension plans, economic demography, applied general equilibrium economics, and much more. John is one for long introductions, but I just will say that if I can be one tenth as helpful to my successor as John has been to me, I'll feel like I've succeeded. So I will let you read more about his publications and accomplishments in the programs you've received today. And so please join me in welcoming our good friend, John Chauvin. And I'm really looking forward to this. Thanks. Wow, thank you. So I have always thought that the more famous the speaker, the shorter the appropriate introduction. And if I were to follow that rule, I would stop right now to say, Jensen, Wong, but I'm not going to do that. So the Oxford English Dictionary defines the American dream. Believe it or not, it does that. And it says that it's a situation where everybody has an equal opportunity for success through hard work, dedication and initiatives. And I would like to say that Jensen Wong is an example of the American dream. Jensen was born in Taiwan, came to the US at age nine with his brother, not with his parents. Went to a rough, tough school in Kentucky, survived that. His parents came two years later, moved to Oregon, skipped two grades in graduate high school, and went to Oregon State, electrical engineering major, 150 men and two women. He said he was 16, he looked like he was 12, he had no chance of the women. Well, he said, like one of them, and said, why don't we work on homework together? Did that over and over and over again? Six months later, he had dropped her date, well, he's still married. So another American dream. Now to skip to age 30, he co-founds Nvidia. He's the only CEO there's ever been of Nvidia. It's had his ups and it's down more ups and downs. It's now the fourth largest company in the world, third largest American company. So that sounds to me like the American dream. I should add, but he also got a degree from Stanford, Master's degree, I think he did it mostly at night, and he was always good with homework, it worked with his wife, it worked for Stanford too. Now, of course, we're here last week. Nvidia announced its earnings. The finance crowd, this got more attention in the Super Bowl, I heard a couple of weeks earlier. It was pretty amazing. His company is at the absolute center of the most exciting development. I'd say of the 21st century technology development. And so he's to be congratulated on that. Let me just say he's received a lot of awards, a lot of recognition. Nvidia's received a lot of awards, a lot of recognition. But I should have a short introduction talk about the quit. I'm just going to talk about one award. Last month, he was elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering. This is a pretty prestigious award. There are only three that I know of. I actually asked Jeff G.P.T. and he did an absolute clear answer. How many CEOs and S&P 500 companies are members of the National Academy of Engineering? But I think it's three. Two are in this room. Andrew Devkin of Cadence Design Systems was awarded it last year. So the two of them have that in common. But let me now just conclude and congratulate Jensen, not only on this award, but on the amazing success of your company. And thank you for speaking to us today at C.P.T. Jensen. I'll see you. Thank you. You're here. I guess so. Okay. So why don't you start off with maybe some opening remarks. And now I'll ask you a few questions. And then you get the tough ones. Well, I think that after your opening remarks, it is smartest for me not to make any opening remarks to avoid risking damaging all the good things you set. But let's see. It's always good to have a pickup line. And mine was, was, do you want to see my homework? And you're right. We're married still. We have two beautiful kids. I have a perfect life. Two great puppies. I love my job. She still enjoys my homework. Well, if you want, I can ask you a few questions. Yes, please. So in my lifetime, I thought the biggest technical development, technology breakthrough was the transistor. I'm older than you. And it was pretty fun. But should I rethink? It's AI now. The biggest change of technology that has occurred in the last 76 years to hit my edge. Yeah. Well, first of all, the transistor was obviously a great invention. But what was the greatest capability that enabled my software? The ability for humans to express our ideas, our ideas, our ideas, in a repeatable way, computation-repeatable way. It was, it was, is the breakthrough. What have we done? We dedicated our company in the last 30 years, third one years to a new form of computer, called a Cell Radio Computer. The idea is that General Props Computing is not ideal for every field of work. We said, why don't we invent a new way of doing computation? Such that we can solve problems that General Props Computing is ill-equipped at home. And what we have effectively done in a particular area of domain of computation that's algorithmic in nature that can be paralyzed, we've taken the computational cost of computers to approximately zero. So what happens when you are able to take the marginal cost of something to approximately zero? We enabled a new way of doing software work. It used to be written by humans. We now can use computers to write the software. Because the computational cost is approximately zero. And so you might as well let the computer go off and grind on just a massive amount of experience we call data, digital experience, human digital experience, called data, and grind on it to find the relationships patterns that as a result represents human knowledge. And that miracle happened about a decade ago. We saw it coming and we took the whole company and we shaped our computer, which was already driving the marginal cost of computing down zero. And we pushed it into this whole domain. And as a result, in the last ten years, we reduced the cost of computing by one million times. And a lot of people said, said to me, but Jensen, if you reduced the cost of computing your costs by a million times and people buy less of it. And it's exactly the opposite. We saw that if we could reduce the marginal cost of computing down to approximately zero, we might use it to do something insanely amazing, large language models. To literally extract all of digital human knowledge from the internet and put it into a computer and let it go figure out what to do. And we figured out what to do with knowledge. That idea of scraping the entire internet and putting it into one computer and letting the computer figure out what the program is, is an insane concept. But you wouldn't ever consider doing it unless the marginal cost of computing was zero. And so we made that breakthrough. And now we've been able to do this new way of software. Imagine, you know, for all the people that are still new to artificial intelligence, we figured out how to use a computer to understand the meaning, not the pattern, but the meaning of almost all digital knowledge. And everything you can digitize, we can understand the meaning. So let me give you an example. Gene sequencing is digitizing genes. But now with large language models, we can go understand, go learn the meaning of that gene. I mean, you know, acids, we digitized, you know, through mass spec, digitized, pro, you know, acids, now we can understand from the meal and acid sequence without a whole lot of work with cryoemns and things like that. We can go figure out what is the structure of the protein and what it does. What does this mean? We can also do that on a fairly large scale. Pretty soon. We can understand what's the meaning of a cell, a whole bunch of genes that are connected together. And so this is from a computer's perspective, no different. Then there's a whole page of words and you ask it to what is the meaning of it? Summaryse, what didn't say? Summaryse, what's the meaning? This is no different than a hard, you know, big, huge, long page of genes. What's the meaning of that? Big, long page of proteins. What's the meaning of that? And so we're on the cusp of all this is just, this is the miracle of what happened. And so I would, it's a long winded answer of St. John that you're absolutely right. That AI, which was enabled by this new form of computing, we call it cell rate, computing that took three decades to do, is probably the single greatest invention of the computer, of the technology industry. This will likely be the most important thing in the 21st century. I agree with that, 21st century. But maybe not the 20th century with the trend. But it's got to be close. We'll let you just be decide. That's right. We'll let you see. Could you look ahead? You, I take it that the GPU chips that is behind artificial intelligence right now is your H100. I know you're introducing an H200. And I think I read that you planned to upgrade that each year. And so could you say ahead five years, March 2029, you're introducing the 8700. What will it allow us to do that we can't do that? I'll go backwards. But let me first say something about the chip that John just described. As we say a chip, all of you in the audience, probably because you've seen the chip before, you imagine there's a chip kind of like, you know, like this. The chip that John just described weighs 70 pounds. It consists of 35,000 parts. Eight of those parts came from TSMC. It, that one chip replaces a data center of old CPUs like this into one computer. The savings, because we compute so fast, the savings of that one computer is incredible. And yet it's the most expensive computer the world's ever seen. It's a quarter of a million dollars per chip. We sell the world's first quarter million dollar chip. But the system that it replaced, the cables alone cost more than the chip, this H100. The cables are connecting all those old computers. That's the incredible thing that we did. We reinvented computing and this resolved computing, marginal cost of computing went to zero. That's what you just explained. We took this entire data center and we shrunk it into this one chip. Well, this one chip is really, really great at trying to figure out this form, this form of computation that without getting weird on you guys, called deep learning. It's really good at this thing called AI. And so the way that this chip works, it works not just at the chip level, but it works at the chip level and the algorithm level and the data center. It works together. It can't. It doesn't do all of its work by itself. It works as a team. So you connect a whole bunch of these things together and it works at, you know, networking is part of it. And so when you look at one of our computers, it's a magnificent thing. You know, only computer engineer. It's magnificent, but it's magnificent. Okay. It weighs a lot, miles and miles, cables, hundreds of miles of cables. And the next one soon coming is the cool, it's beautiful in a lot of ways. And it computes at data center scales. And together what's going to happen in the next 10 years, say John, will increase the computational capability for deep learning by another million times. And what happens when you do that? What happens when you do that? Today we kind of learn and then we apply it. We go train inference. We learn and we apply it. In the future, we'll have continuous learning. We could decide whether that whatever that continuous learning resolved, it will be deployed into, you know, the world's applications are not. But the computer will watch videos, new text from all the interactions that it's just continuously improving. So the learning process, the training process and the inference process, the training process and employment process, application process, will just become one. Well, that's exactly what we do. You know, we don't have like between now and seven o'clock in the morning I'm going to do my learning and after that I'll just be doing inference. You're learning and inferencing all the time. And that reinforcement learning loop will be continuous. And that reinforcement learning will be grounded with real world data that's being through interaction, as well as synthetically generating data that we're creating real time. So this computer will be imagining all the time. Does that make sense? Just like when you're learning, you take pieces of information and you go for first principles, it should work like this. And then we do the simulation, the imagination, I'm right. And that future imagine, imagine state. In a lot of ways manifests itself to us as reality. And so your AI computer and the future will kind of do the same. It'll do synthetic data generation, it'll reinforce learning, it'll continue to be grounded by real world experiences, it'll imagine some things, it'll test it with real world experience, it'll be grounded by that. And that entire loop is just one giant loop. That's what happens when you can compute for a million times cheaper than today. And so as I'm saying this, notice what's at the core of it. When you can drive the marginal cost of computing down to zero, then there are many new ways of doing something you're willing to do. This is no different than I'm willing to go further places because the marginal cost of transportation is constantly like in fly from the year to New York relatively cheaply. They were able to take in a month, you know, I'll probably never go. And so this is exactly the same in transportation and I'll just slot everything that we do. And so we're going to take the marginal cost of computing down to approximately zero. As a result, we'll do a lot more computation. That causes me to... As you probably know, there have been some recent stories that Nvidia will face more competition in the inference market than it has the training market. But what you're saying is it's actually going to be one market, I think. Can you comment about, you know, is there going to be a separate training chip market and inference chip market or sounds like you're going to be continuously training and switching to inference maybe within what chip. I don't know. Why do you explain to me? Well today, whenever you prompt an AI, it could be Chaturketeer or it could be Copilot or it could be... If you're using a service now platform, using majority, using Firefly for Adobe, whenever you prompt it, it's doing inference. You know, inference is a...right? So it's generating information. Whenever you do that, what's behind it, 100% of them is Nvidia's GPUs. And so Nvidia's most of the time you engage are our platforms when you're inferencing. And so we're 100% of the world's inferencing today is Nvidia. Now, is inferencing hard or easy? A lot of people...the reason why people are picking on inferences... When you look at training and you look at Nvidia's system doing training, when you just look at it, you go, that looks too hard. I'm not going to go too hard. I'm a chip company. That doesn't look like a chip. And so there's a natural... And you have to...in order for you to even prove that something works or not, you're $2 billion into it. And you turn it on to realize it's not very effective. You're $2 billion and two years into it. The risk of exploring something new is too high for the customers. And so a lot of competitors tend to say, you know, we're not into training, we're into inference. Inference is incredibly hard. Let's think about it for a second. The response time of inference has to be really high. But this is the easy part. That's the computer science part. The hard part of inference is the goal of somebody who is doing inference is to engage a lot more users, to apply that software to a large install base. Inference is an install base problem. This is no different than somebody who's writing an application on an iPhone. The reason why they do so is because iPhone has to do a large install base. Almost everyone has one. And so if you wrote an application for that phone, it's going to be able to benefit. Well, in the case of Nvidia, our accelerated computing platform is the only accelerated computing platform that's literally everything. Because we've been working on it for so long. If you wrote an application for inference, and you take that model and you deploy it on a video's architecture, it literally wants everybody. So you can touch everybody, you can enable, have greater impact. And so the problem with inference is actually install base. And that takes enormous patience, years of dedication to architecture, compatibility, you know, so what's the point? You make, you know, completely state of the art ships. Is it possible that you'll face competition that is claims to be good enough? Not as good as Nvidia, but good enough. And my secret is that a threat? Well, first of all, competition. We have more competition than anyone on a plan that has competition. Not only do we have competition from competitors, we have competition from our customers. And I'm the only competitor to a customer, fully knowing they're about to design a ship to replace ours. And I showed them, not only what my current ship is, I showed them what my next ship is, I showed them what my ship would add to that. And so, and the reason for that is because, because, look, if you don't make an attempt at explaining why you're good at something, they'll never get a chance to buy your products. So, so we're, we're a completely open book and working with just by everybody in the street. And the reason, the reason for that, our advantage is that, our advantage, what we're about to several things. Whereas you can build a ship to, to be good at one particular algorithm. Remember, computing is more than even transformers. It's an idea called transformers. There's a whole bunch of species of transformers. And they're new transformers being invented, as we speak. And the number of different types of software is really quite, quite rich. And the reason for that is because software engineers love to create things, innovation. And we want them. What a video is good at is that our architecture, not only does it accelerate algorithms, it's programmable, meaning that, that you can use it for, see what, were the only accelerator per sequel. Sequel was, came about in the 1960s. IBM, 1970s, in storage computing. I mean, sequels, structure data is as important as it gets. 300 zetabytes of data being created, you know, every couple of years. Most of it is in sequel, structure databases. And so, so we can excel, we can excel, we can excel, we can excel. We can excel, we can excel, we can excel, we can excel, we can excel, you know, every fluids, particles, you know, lots and lots of cool. And so, what Nvidia is good at is the general field of excel, we compute one of them is genitive, A on. And so, for a data center that wants to have a lot of customers, some of the financial services, some of it, you know, some of it in manufacturing, so on, so forth. In the world of computing, we're, you know, we're a great stand. We're in every single cloud, we're in every single computer company. And so, our company's architecture has become a standard, you know, after some 30-some years. And so, that's really our advantage. If a customer can do something specifically that's more cost effective, quite frankly, I'm even surprised by that. And the reason for that is this. Remember, our chip is only part, think of, when you see computers these days, it's not a computer like a laptop, it's a computer's data center. You have to operate. And so, people who buy and sell chips think about the price of chips. People who operate data centers think about the cost of operations. Our time to deployment, our performance, our utilization, our flexibility across all these different applications. In total, allows our operations cost. They call it total cost of operations TCO. Our TCO is so good that even when the competitors chips are free, it's not cheap. And that is our goal. To add so much value that the alternative is not about cost. And so, we, of course, that takes a lot of hard work. We have to keep innovating, it's like that. We don't take it too competitive. But we have a lot of competitors. As you know, but maybe not everybody in the audience knows. There's this term artificial general intelligence, which basically, I was hoping not to sound competitive, but John asked the question that kind of triggered a competitive gene. And I came across, I want to say, I want to apologize. I came across, you know, if you will, a little competitive. I apologize. I could have probably done that more hard for me. I will next time. But he surprised me with a competitive, I thought it was an economic form. You know, just walk it in here. I said, I'd sent this question to his team. And I said, did you look at the question? No, I didn't look at the question. So I wanted to be spontaneous. Besides, I might start thinking about it. We have a few of them. So we're just gonna wing it out here. Both of us. So I was asking, when do you think, and of course, when do you think we will achieve artificial general intelligence, sort of human level intelligence? Is that 50 years away? Is it five years away? What's your opinion? I'll give you a very specific answer. But first, let me just tell you a couple of things about what's happening. It's super exciting. First, of course, we're training these models to be multimodality, meaning that we will learn from sounds, we'll learn from words, we'll learn from vision, and we'll just watch TV and learn so on so forth. It's just like all of us. And the reason why that's so important is because we want AI to be grounded. Grounded not just by human values, which is what Chaturketeer really innovated. Remember, we had large language models before, but it wasn't until reinforcement learning human feedback, that human feedback that grounds the AI to something that we feel good about, human values. Now, could you imagine, now you have to generate images, videos, and things like that. How does the AI know that hands don't penetrate through? You know, potions that feed stand above the ground, that when you step on water, you all fall into it. So you have to ground it on physics. And so now AI has to learn by watching a lot of different examples, and ideally, mostly video, that certain properties are obeyed in the world. It has to create what is called a world model. So one, we have to understand multiple down. There's a whole bunch of modalities, as I mentioned, four genes. We know as is proteins and cells, which leads to organs, so on and so forth. And so we would like to multi-modality. Second is greater and greater reasoning capabilities. A lot of the things that we already do, reasoning skills are encoded in common sense. Common sense is reasoning that we all take advantage of. And so there are a lot of things in our knowledge in the internet that already encodes reasoning and models can learn that. But there's higher level reasoning capabilities. For example, there's some questions that you answer me. Right now when we're talking, I'm mostly doing generative AI. I'm not spending a whole lot of time reasoning about the question. However, there are certain problems like, for example, planning problems. Well, I'm going to, that's interesting. Let me think about that. And I'm cycling in the back, and I'm coming up with multiple plans. I've got traversing a tree. Maybe I'm going through my graph, and I'm pruning my trees. I say, this doesn't make sense. But this I'm going to put, and I simulated my head. And maybe I do some calculations and so on and so forth. That long thinking, that long thinking, AI is not good at today. Everything that you prompted the chat GPT give responses to the tangously. We would like to prompt something into the chat GPT, give it a mission statement, give it a problem, and for it to think a one, isn't it right? That kind of system, what computer science calls system two, thinking, or long thinking, or planning, those kind of things reasoning and planning, those kind of problems, I think we're working on those things. And I think that you can see some breaking. So in the future, the way you have an AI would be very different. Some of it will be just just give me a question and answer. Some of it say, here's a problem. Go work on it for a while. Tell me tomorrow. It does the largest amount of computation it can do. Buy tomorrow. You can also say, I'm going to give you this problem. Spend $1,000, but don't spend more than that. And it comes back with the best answer within the thousand. We're getting, you know, so forth. Okay, so that's now, AI. The question on AI is what's the definition? In fact, that's kind of the super question. Now, if you ask me, if you say Jensen, AGI is a list of tests. And remember, an engineer can only, an engineer knows that we've, you know, anybody in that, you know, prestigious organization that I'm now part of, it knows for sure about engineers is that you need to have a specification and you need to know what the definition of success is. You need to have a test. Now, if I gave an AI a lot of math tests, reasoning tests, history tests, biology tests, medical exams, bar exams, you name SATs, MCATs, every single test that you can possibly imagine, you make that list of tests that you put in front of the computer science industry. I'm guessing in five years time we'll do well on the first thing we want. And so if your definition of AGI is that it passes human tests, then I will tell you five years. If you tell me, but is it, if you asked it to be a little bit differently the way you asked, that AGI is going to be have human intelligence, well, I'm not exactly sure how to specify all of your intelligence yet. And nobody does really, and therefore it's hard to achieve. There's an engineer, doesn't make sense. Okay, so the answer is we're not sure and we're all endeavoring to make it better. So I'm going to ask two more questions and I'm going to turn it over because I think there's lots of good questions out there. The first one I was going to ask about is, could you just dive a little deeper into what you see as AGI's role in drug discovery? The first role is to understand the meaning of the digital information that we have. Right now we have all, as you know, we have a whole lot of amino acids we can now, because of alpha-fold, understand the protein structure of many of them. But the question is now what is the meaning of that protein? What does the meaning of that protein? What does this function? It would be great just as you can chat with GPT. As you guys know, you can chat with a PDF. You take a PDF file, it doesn't matter what it is. My favorites are you take a PDF file of a research paper and you load it into chat. You can just start at just talking to it. It's like talking to the researchers. What inspired this research? What problems is this all? What was the breakthrough? What was the state of art before that? What were the novel ideas? Just talk to it like a human. In the future, we're going to take a protein, put it into chat GPT just like PDF. What are you for? What enzymes activate you? What makes you happy? For example, there will be a whole sequence of genes and you're going to take the represents to sell you. You're going to put that selling. What do you for? What do you do? What do you get for? What do you hope to dream? That's one of the most profound things we can do. Is to understand the meaning of biology. Does it make sense? If we can understand the meaning of biology, as you guys, once we understand the meaning of almost any information, it's in the world of computer science, world of computing. Amazing engineers and amazing scientists know exactly what to do. But that's the breakthrough. The multi-omic understanding of biology. That's if I could, you know, deep and shallow answer to your, I think that's probably the single most profound thing we can do. Boy, already in state and Stanford are really proud of you. So if I could switch gears just a little bit and you say, Stanford has a lot of aspiring entrepreneurs. Students that are entrepreneurs and maybe they're computer science majors or engineering majors that some sort. Please don't build GPUs. What advice would you give them to improve their chances of success? One of my, I think one of my great advantages is that I have very low expectations. And I mean that most of the Stanford graduates have very high expectations. And you deserve to have high expectations because you keep them a great school. You were very successful. You're top of your class. Obviously you were able to pay for tuition. And then you're graduating from one of the finest institutions on the planet. You're surrounded by other kids that are just incredible. You should have very, you naturally have very high expectations. People with very high expectations have very low resilience. And unfortunately, resilience matters in success. I don't know how to teach it to you except for I hope suffering happens to you. And I was fortunate that I grew up with my parents providing a condition for us to be successful on the one hand. But there were plenty of opportunities for setbacks and suffering. And to this day, I used to work the phrase pain and suffering inside our company with great glee. And the reason, and I mean that, you know, boy, this is going to cause a lot of pain and suffering. And I mean that in a happy way. Because you want to train, you want to refine the character of your company. You want that you want greatness out of them. And greatness is not intelligent, as you know. Greatness comes from character. Character isn't formed out of smart people. It's formed out of people who suffered. And so that's kind of it. And so if I could wish upon you, I don't know how to do it. But for all of you, Stanford students, I wish upon you, you know, Apple doses of pain and suffering. I'm going to back out on my promise and ask you one more question. How do you, you seem incredibly motivated and energetic. But how do you keep your employees motivated and energetic? Wouldn't they probably have written and they ever expect it? Yeah, I'm surrounded by 55 people. My management team, so you know, my management team, my direct reports, 55 people. I write no reviews for any of them. I give them constant reviews. And they provide the same team. My compensation for them is the bottom right corner of Excel. I just drag it down. Literally, many of our executives are paid exactly to the dollar. I know it's weird. It works. And I don't do one-on-ones with any of them. Unless they need me, then I'll drop everything for them. I never have meetings with them just alone. And they never hear me say something to them that is only for them to know. There's not one piece of information that I somehow secretly tell Eastown, that I don't tell the rest of the company. And so in that way, our company was designed for agility, for information to be as flow as quickly as possible. For people to be empowered by what they are able to do, not what they know. And so that's the architecture of our company. I don't remember your question. Oh, I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. The answer for that is my behavior. How do I celebrate success? How do I celebrate failure? How do I talk about success? How do I talk about setbacks? Every single thing that I'm looking for opportunities to instill. Every single day, I'm looking for opportunities to keep on instilling the culture of the company. What is important? What's not important? What's the definition of good? How do you compare yourself to good? How do you think about good? How do you think about a journey? How do you think about results? All of them. All the long. Mark, can you help us? Okay. Good. Or some questions. Let me start with Winston and I'll come to you. Oh, we need a microphone. Can you just then do you got this? Yeah. Four number of answers. I have a couple of questions. What's the story about your leather jacket? The second is according to your projection and calculation, it's five to ten years. How much more semi-conductor manufacturing capacity is needed to support growth of AI? Okay. I appreciate the two questions. The first question is, this is what my wife bought for me and this is what it was. And because I do 0% of my own shopping, as soon as she finds something that doesn't make me itch, because she knows she's known me since I was 17 years old and she thinks that everything makes me itch. And the way I say I don't like something is it makes me itch. And so as soon as she finds me something that doesn't make me itch, if you look at my closet, the whole closet is a shirt, because she doesn't want to shop for me again. And so that's why this is all she bought me and this is all I'm wearing. And if I don't like the answer, I can go shopping. Otherwise I can wear it. And it's good enough for me. Okay, we've got it. The second question on the forecast is actually very disparate. I'm forable at forecast. But I'm very good at first principle reasoning of the size of the opportunity. And so let me first reason for you. I have no idea how many fabs, but here's the thing that I do. The way that we do computing today, the information was written by someone, created by someone, it's basically pre-recorded. All the words, all the videos, all the sound, everything that we do is retrieval-based. It was pre-recorded. Does that make sense? As I say that, every time you touch on a phone, remember somebody wrote that and stored it, something was pre-recorded. Okay, every modality that you know. In the future, because we're going to have AIs, it understands the current circumstance, and because it can, it's tapped into all of the world's latest news and things like it's called retrieval-based. Okay, and it understands your context, meaning it understood why you asked what you were asking about. When you and I ask about the economy, we probably are meeting very different things. And for very different context, and big based on that, it can generate exactly the right information for you. So in the future, it already understands context, and most of the computing will be generative. In the today, 100% of content is pre-recorded. If in the future, 100% of content will be generative. The question is, how many, how does that change the shape of computing? And so without torturing you anymore. That's how I reasoned through things. How much more networking do we need, more or less of that? Do we need memory of this? When the answer is, we're going to need more fabs. However, remember that we're also improving the algorithms and the processing of it tremendously over time. It's not as if the efficiency of computing is what it is today, and therefore demand is this much. In the meantime, I'm improving computing by a million times every two years, while demand is going up by a trillion times. And that has to offset each other. It doesn't make sense. And then there's technology diffusion and so on and so forth. That's just the matter of time. But it doesn't change the fact that one day, all of the computers in the world will be changed 100%. Every single data center will be all of those general prep computing data centers. 100% of the trillion dollars with the infrastructure will be completely changed. And then there will be new infrastructure built on, even on top of that. Okay, next question right here, Ben. And then over here, so Randy. Thanks for coming today. So recently you said that you encouraged it's not to learn how to code. And that's the case. It means one of maybe a few things. But do you think the world starts to look like from a company formation and entrepreneurship perspective that it goes towards many, many more companies that are created? Or do you think it's consolidation? Just none of the big players. So first of all, I said it so poorly that you repeat it back. Good. If you would like to code, forgot, say code. Okay. If you want to make omelets, make omelets, I'm not coding has coding is a reasoning process. It's good. Does it is it going to guarantee you a job? No, not even a real man. The number of coders in the world surely will continue to be important and we and VINIA needs coders. However, in the future, the way you interact with the computer is not going to be C++. Most for some of us, that's true, for some of us. But for you, why program in Python? So weird. In the future, you'll tell the computer what you want. And the computer will, you say, hi, I'd like you to come up with a build plan with all of the suppliers and build a material for a forecast that we have for you. And based on all the necessary components that are coming up with a build plan. Okay. And then if you don't like that, just write me a Python program that I can modify of that build plan. And so remember, the first time I talked to the computer, I'm just speaking in plain English. The second time, so English, by the way, human is the best programming language of future. How do you talk to a computer? How do you prompt it? How do you prompt it? It's called prompt engineering. How do you interact with people? How do you interact with computers? How do you make a computer do what you want it to do? How do you fine tune the instructions with that computer? That's called prompt engineering. There's an artistry to that. Okay. So for example, most people are surprised by this, but it's not surprising to me, but it's surprising. For example, you ask me, journey to generate a picture, an image of a puppy on a surfboard in Hawaii, sunset. Okay. And then and then and then Gerr is going to go and you say, oh, more cute. Make it more cute. And it comes back. It's more cute. And you go, no, no, cuter than that. And it comes back. Why is it that software would do that? There's a there's a structural reason why it does that. But for example, you need to know that that capability exists in a computer. Is that right? That you, if you don't like the answer first time, you could you could fine tune it and get it to within the context that you you know, you can make it give you better, better results. And and once you eat, you can even ask it to write the program altogether to generate that result in the future. And so my point is that programming has has changed in a way that is probably less value. On the other hand, let me I will tell you this, that because of artificial intelligence, we have closed the technology to find a few minutes. Today, about about 10 million people are gainfully employed because we know how to program computers, which leaves the other eight billion behind. That's not true in the future. We all can program computers. Does that make sense? You all know how to prompt a computer to make it and look at all you do is look at YouTube and look at all the people who are using prompt engineering, all the kids, you know, who are making and do amazing things. They don't know the program. They're just talking to chat GPT. They just know that if I tell it to do this, they'll do that, you know, and so it's no different than interacting with people in the future. That's that's the great contribution we've been computer science industry has made to the world. We close the technology department. That's inspiring. Okay, over here. We've got Randy with a question right over here. Thank you very much. I'm just wondering about do you think very much about geopolitical risk and how do you see it impacting your industry if you do? A geopolitical risk, we are almost the poster child of geopolitical risk. And the reason for that is because we make a very important instrument for artificial intelligence and artificial intelligence. John and I were talking about earlier is the defining technology of this of this time. And so the United States has every right to determine that this instrument should be limited to countries that it determines that it should be limited, limited with. And so the United States has a right and they exercise every. And your question has to do with what is the implication to us? First of all, we just have to understand these policies and we have to stay agile so that we can comply with the policies. Number one, on the one hand, it limits our opportunity in some places and it opens up of opportunities and others. One of the things that has happened in the last, I would say, maybe even six to nine months, is the awakening of every single country, every single society, the awakening that they have to control their own digital intelligence. That India can't outsource data so that some country transforms that digital data into India's intelligence and imports that intelligence back to India. That awakening, that sovereign AI, you have to dedicate yourself to control your sovereign AI, your sovereign intelligence, protect your language, protect your culture for your own industries. That awakening, I think, happened in the last six months. The first part was we have to be mindful of our safety. The second part was hold on a second. We all have to do this. And so every single country from India, Canada's do it this, the UK, France, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, the list goes on. Just by every single country now relies that they have to invest in their own sovereign AI. So geopolitics in the one hand limited opportunities but it created just enormous opportunities elsewhere. Hard to say. Okay, so I think we have multiple hands but I have time for one more question. I am going to go right here. You had to hand you a further one. Now remember, the last question has all big questions. I guess there's no with that. You can ask the last question. Don't leave us all depressed. I'm going to trigger me, please. That's all I'm saying. I'm going to invoke your commitment to have low expectations this gesture. You mentioned you're competing with your customers and I'm wondering given the advantage that you have wider doing that and I'm wondering if in the future you yourself building more customized solutions for customers of a certain scale as opposed to the solutions that you have now which are more horizontal. Are we willing to customize the answers? Yes. Now why is it that the bars relative? The reason why bars and highs because each generation of our platform, first of all, there's a GPU, there's a CPU, there's a networking processor, there's a two types of switches. I just built five chips for one generation. People think it's one chip but it's five different chips. Each one of those chips are hundreds and hundreds of dollars to do. Just hitting launch, which is tape out for us, launching a rocket is several hundred million dollars each time. I've got five per generation. Then you've got to put them into a system and then you've got to put, you've got networking stuff, you've got cable, transceiver stuff, you've got optic stuff, you've got mountain of software to do. It takes a lot of software to run the computer as big as this room. So all of that is complicated. If the customization is so different, then you have to repeat the entire R&D. However, if the customization leverages and adds something to it, then it makes a great deal of sense. Maybe it's a proprietary security system. Maybe it's a confidential computing system. Maybe it's a new way of doing numerical process that could be extended. We're very open-minded. The customers know that I want to do all that and recognize that if you change it too far, you basically reset and you squander the nearly hundred billion dollars that's taken us to get here to redo it for some research. So they want to leverage our ecosystem to the extent that that will be done very often to it. And they know that. Okay, so with that, I think we need to wrap up. Thank you so much for John and Jensen.